§ 6-1-1701. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1701




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1701

                                                      § 6-1-1701. Definitions

                                                            Currentness


As used in this part 17, unless the context otherwise requires:


(1)(a) “Algorithmic discrimination” means any condition in which the use of an artificial intelligence system results in an
unlawful differential treatment or impact that disfavors an individual or group of individuals on the basis of their actual or
perceived age, color, disability, ethnicity, genetic information, limited proficiency in the English language, national origin, race,
religion, reproductive health, sex, veteran status, or other classification protected under the laws of this state or federal law.


(b) “Algorithmic discrimination” does not include:


(I) The offer, license, or use of a high-risk artificial intelligence system by a developer or deployer for the sole purpose of:


(A) The developer's or deployer's self-testing to identify, mitigate, or prevent discrimination or otherwise ensure compliance
with state and federal law; or


(B) Expanding an applicant, customer, or participant pool to increase diversity or redress historical discrimination; or


(II) An act or omission by or on behalf of a private club or other establishment that is not in fact open to the public, as set forth
in Title II of the federal “Civil Rights Act of 1964”, 42 U.S.C. sec. 2000a(e), as amended.


(2) “Artificial intelligence system” means any machine-based system that, for any explicit or implicit objective, infers from
the inputs the system receives how to generate outputs, including content, decisions, predictions, or recommendations, that can
influence physical or virtual environments.


(3) “Consequential decision” means a decision that has a material legal or similarly significant effect on the provision or denial
to any consumer of, or the cost or terms of:


(a) Education enrollment or an education opportunity;




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                1
§ 6-1-1701. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1701




(b) Employment or an employment opportunity;


(c) A financial or lending service;


(d) An essential government service;


(e) Health-care services;


(f) Housing;


(g) Insurance; or


(h) A legal service.


(4) “Consumer” means an individual who is a Colorado resident.


(5) “Deploy” means to use a high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(6) “Deployer” means a person doing business in this state that deploys a high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(7) “Developer” means a person doing business in this state that develops or intentionally and substantially modifies an artificial
intelligence system.


(8) “Health-care services” has the same meaning as provided in 42 U.S.C. sec. 234(d)(2).


(9)(a) “High-risk artificial intelligence system” means any artificial intelligence system that, when deployed, makes, or is a
substantial factor in making, a consequential decision.


(b) “High-risk artificial intelligence system” does not include:


(I) An artificial intelligence system if the artificial intelligence system is intended to:


(A) Perform a narrow procedural task; or


(B) Detect decision-making patterns or deviations from prior decision-making patterns and is not intended to replace or influence
a previously completed human assessment without sufficient human review; or




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                             2
§ 6-1-1701. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1701




(II) The following technologies, unless the technologies, when deployed, make, or are a substantial factor in making, a
consequential decision:


(A) Anti-fraud technology that does not use facial recognition technology;


(B) Anti-malware;


(C) Anti-virus;


(D) Artificial intelligence-enabled video games;


(E) Calculators;


(F) Cybersecurity;


(G) Databases;


(H) Data storage;


(I) Firewall;


(J) Internet domain registration;


(K) Internet website loading;


(L) Networking;


(M) Spam- and robocall-filtering;


(N) Spell-checking;


(O) Spreadsheets;


(P) Web caching;


(Q) Web hosting or any similar technology; or



                  © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                               3
§ 6-1-1701. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1701




(R) Technology that communicates with consumers in natural language for the purpose of providing users with information,
making referrals or recommendations, and answering questions and is subject to an accepted use policy that prohibits generating
content that is discriminatory or harmful.


(10)(a) “Intentional and substantial modification” or “intentionally and substantially modifies” means a deliberate change made
to an artificial intelligence system that results in any new reasonably foreseeable risk of algorithmic discrimination.


(b) “Intentional and substantial modification” or “intentionally and substantially modifies” does not include a change made to
a high-risk artificial intelligence system, or the performance of a high-risk artificial intelligence system, if:


(I) The high-risk artificial intelligence system continues to learn after the high-risk artificial intelligence system is:


(A) Offered, sold, leased, licensed, given, or otherwise made available to a deployer; or


(B) Deployed;


(II) The change is made to the high-risk artificial intelligence system as a result of any learning described in subsection (10)
(b)(I) of this section;


(III) The change was predetermined by the deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer, when the deployer or third party
completed an initial impact assessment of such high-risk artificial intelligence system pursuant to section 6-1-1703(3); and


(IV) The change is included in technical documentation for the high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(11)(a) “Substantial factor” means a factor that:


(I) Assists in making a consequential decision;


(II) Is capable of altering the outcome of a consequential decision; and


(III) Is generated by an artificial intelligence system.


(b) “Substantial factor” includes any use of an artificial intelligence system to generate any content, decision, prediction, or
recommendation concerning a consumer that is used as a basis to make a consequential decision concerning the consumer.


(12) “Trade secret” has the meaning set forth in section 7-74-102(4).




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                           4
§ 6-1-1701. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1701




Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1701, CO ST § 6-1-1701
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




              © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               5
§ 6-1-1702. Developer duty to avoid algorithmic..., CO ST § 6-1-1702




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1702

                   § 6-1-1702. Developer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--required documentation

                                                           Currentness


(1) On and after February 1, 2026, a developer of a high-risk artificial intelligence system shall use reasonable care to
protect consumers from any known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination arising from the intended and
contracted uses of the high-risk artificial intelligence system. In any enforcement action brought on or after February 1, 2026,
by the attorney general pursuant to section 6-1-1706, there is a rebuttable presumption that a developer used reasonable care
as required under this section if the developer complied with this section and any additional requirements or obligations as set
forth in rules promulgated by the attorney general pursuant to section 6-1-1707.


(2) On and after February 1, 2026, and except as provided in subsection (6) of this section, a developer of a high-risk artificial
intelligence system shall make available to the deployer or other developer of the high-risk artificial intelligence system:


(a) A general statement describing the reasonably foreseeable uses and known harmful or inappropriate uses of the high-risk
artificial intelligence system;


(b) Documentation disclosing:


(I) High-level summaries of the type of data used to train the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(II) Known or reasonably foreseeable limitations of the high-risk artificial intelligence system, including known or reasonably
foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination arising from the intended uses of the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(III) The purpose of the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(IV) The intended benefits and uses of the high-risk artificial intelligence system; and


(V) All other information necessary to allow the deployer to comply with the requirements of section 6-1-1703;


(c) Documentation describing:




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            1
§ 6-1-1702. Developer duty to avoid algorithmic..., CO ST § 6-1-1702




(I) How the high-risk artificial intelligence system was evaluated for performance and mitigation of algorithmic discrimination
before the high-risk artificial intelligence system was offered, sold, leased, licensed, given, or otherwise made available to the
deployer;


(II) The data governance measures used to cover the training datasets and the measures used to examine the suitability of data
sources, possible biases, and appropriate mitigation;


(III) The intended outputs of the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(IV) The measures the developer has taken to mitigate known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination that
may arise from the reasonably foreseeable deployment of the high-risk artificial intelligence system; and


(V) How the high-risk artificial intelligence system should be used, not be used, and be monitored by an individual when the
high-risk artificial intelligence system is used to make, or is a substantial factor in making, a consequential decision; and


(d) Any additional documentation that is reasonably necessary to assist the deployer in understanding the outputs and monitor
the performance of the high-risk artificial intelligence system for risks of algorithmic discrimination.


(3)(a) Except as provided in subsection (6) of this section, a developer that offers, sells, leases, licenses, gives, or otherwise
makes available to a deployer or other developer a high-risk artificial intelligence system on or after February 1, 2026, shall
make available to the deployer or other developer, to the extent feasible, the documentation and information, through artifacts
such as model cards, dataset cards, or other impact assessments, necessary for a deployer, or for a third party contracted by a
deployer, to complete an impact assessment pursuant to section 6-1-1703(3).


(b) A developer that also serves as a deployer for a high-risk artificial intelligence system is not required to generate the
documentation required by this section unless the high-risk artificial intelligence system is provided to an unaffiliated entity
acting as a deployer.


(4)(a) On and after February 1, 2026, a developer shall make available, in a manner that is clear and readily available on the
developer's website or in a public use case inventory, a statement summarizing:


(I) The types of high-risk artificial intelligence systems that the developer has developed or intentionally and substantially
modified and currently makes available to a deployer or other developer; and


(II) How the developer manages known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination that may arise from the
development or intentional and substantial modification of the types of high-risk artificial intelligence systems described in
accordance with subsection (4)(a)(I) of this section.


(b) A developer shall update the statement described in subsection (4)(a) of this section:




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            2
§ 6-1-1702. Developer duty to avoid algorithmic..., CO ST § 6-1-1702




(I) As necessary to ensure that the statement remains accurate; and


(II) No later than ninety days after the developer intentionally and substantially modifies any high-risk artificial intelligence
system described in subsection (4)(a)(I) of this section.


(5) On and after February 1, 2026, a developer of a high-risk artificial intelligence system shall disclose to the attorney general,
in a form and manner prescribed by the attorney general, and to all known deployers or other developers of the high-risk artificial
intelligence system, any known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination arising from the intended uses of
the high-risk artificial intelligence system without unreasonable delay but no later than ninety days after the date on which:


(a) The developer discovers through the developer's ongoing testing and analysis that the developer's high-risk artificial
intelligence system has been deployed and has caused or is reasonably likely to have caused algorithmic discrimination; or


(b) The developer receives from a deployer a credible report that the high-risk artificial intelligence system has been deployed
and has caused algorithmic discrimination.


(6) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) of this section requires a developer to disclose a trade secret, information protected from
disclosure by state or federal law, or information that would create a security risk to the developer.


(7) On and after February 1, 2026, the attorney general may require that a developer disclose to the attorney general, no later
than ninety days after the request and in a form and manner prescribed by the attorney general, the statement or documentation
described in subsection (2) of this section. The attorney general may evaluate such statement or documentation to ensure
compliance with this part 17, and the statement or documentation is not subject to disclosure under the “Colorado Open Records
Act”, part 2 of article 72 of title 24. In a disclosure pursuant to this subsection (7), a developer may designate the statement
or documentation as including proprietary information or a trade secret. To the extent that any information contained in the
statement or documentation includes information subject to attorney-client privilege or work-product protection, the disclosure
does not constitute a waiver of the privilege or protection.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1702, CO ST § 6-1-1702
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                      © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                   3
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1703

            § 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk management policy and program

                                                           Currentness


(1) On and after February 1, 2026, a deployer of a high-risk artificial intelligence system shall use reasonable care to protect
consumers from any known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination. In any enforcement action brought on
or after February 1, 2026, by the attorney general pursuant to section 6-1-1706, there is a rebuttable presumption that a deployer
of a high-risk artificial intelligence system used reasonable care as required under this section if the deployer complied with
this section and any additional requirements or obligations as set forth in rules promulgated by the attorney general pursuant
to section 6-1-1707.


(2)(a) On and after February 1, 2026, and except as provided in subsection (6) of this section, a deployer of a high-risk artificial
intelligence system shall implement a risk management policy and program to govern the deployer's deployment of the high-risk
artificial intelligence system. The risk management policy and program must specify and incorporate the principles, processes,
and personnel that the deployer uses to identify, document, and mitigate known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic
discrimination. The risk management policy and program must be an iterative process planned, implemented, and regularly and
systematically reviewed and updated over the life cycle of a high-risk artificial intelligence system, requiring regular, systematic
review and updates. A risk management policy and program implemented and maintained pursuant to this subsection (2) must
be reasonable considering:


(I)(A) The guidance and standards set forth in the latest version of the “Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework”
published by the national institute of standards and technology in the United States department of commerce, standard ISO/
IEC 42001 of the International Organization for Standardization, or another nationally or internationally recognized risk
management framework for artificial intelligence systems, if the standards are substantially equivalent to or more stringent than
the requirements of this part 17; or


(B) Any risk management framework for artificial intelligence systems that the attorney general, in the attorney general's
discretion, may designate;


(II) The size and complexity of the deployer;


(III) The nature and scope of the high-risk artificial intelligence systems deployed by the deployer, including the intended uses
of the high-risk artificial intelligence systems; and




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              1
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703




(IV) The sensitivity and volume of data processed in connection with the high-risk artificial intelligence systems deployed by
the deployer.


(b) A risk management policy and program implemented pursuant to subsection (2)(a) of this section may cover multiple high-
risk artificial intelligence systems deployed by the deployer.


(3)(a) Except as provided in subsections (3)(d), (3)(e), and (6) of this section:


(I) A deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer, that deploys a high-risk artificial intelligence system on or after
February 1, 2026, shall complete an impact assessment for the high-risk artificial intelligence system; and


(II) On and after February 1, 2026, a deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer, shall complete an impact assessment
for a deployed high-risk artificial intelligence system at least annually and within ninety days after any intentional and substantial
modification to the high-risk artificial intelligence system is made available.


(b) An impact assessment completed pursuant to this subsection (3) must include, at a minimum, and to the extent reasonably
known by or available to the deployer:


(I) A statement by the deployer disclosing the purpose, intended use cases, and deployment context of, and benefits afforded
by, the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(II) An analysis of whether the deployment of the high-risk artificial intelligence system poses any known or reasonably
foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination and, if so, the nature of the algorithmic discrimination and the steps that have
been taken to mitigate the risks;


(III) A description of the categories of data the high-risk artificial intelligence system processes as inputs and the outputs the
high-risk artificial intelligence system produces;


(IV) If the deployer used data to customize the high-risk artificial intelligence system, an overview of the categories of data the
deployer used to customize the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(V) Any metrics used to evaluate the performance and known limitations of the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(VI) A description of any transparency measures taken concerning the high-risk artificial intelligence system, including any
measures taken to disclose to a consumer that the high-risk artificial intelligence system is in use when the high-risk artificial
intelligence system is in use; and


(VII) A description of the post-deployment monitoring and user safeguards provided concerning the high-risk artificial
intelligence system, including the oversight, use, and learning process established by the deployer to address issues arising from
the deployment of the high-risk artificial intelligence system.


                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                2
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703




(c) In addition to the information required under subsection (3)(b) of this section, an impact assessment completed pursuant to
this subsection (3) following an intentional and substantial modification to a high-risk artificial intelligence system on or after
February 1, 2026, must include a statement disclosing the extent to which the high-risk artificial intelligence system was used
in a manner that was consistent with, or varied from, the developer's intended uses of the high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(d) A single impact assessment may address a comparable set of high-risk artificial intelligence systems deployed by a deployer.


(e) If a deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer, completes an impact assessment for the purpose of complying
with another applicable law or regulation, the impact assessment satisfies the requirements established in this subsection (3) if
the impact assessment is reasonably similar in scope and effect to the impact assessment that would otherwise be completed
pursuant to this subsection (3).


(f) A deployer shall maintain the most recently completed impact assessment for a high-risk artificial intelligence system as
required under this subsection (3), all records concerning each impact assessment, and all prior impact assessments, if any, for
at least three years following the final deployment of the high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(g) On or before February 1, 2026, and at least annually thereafter, a deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer, must
review the deployment of each high-risk artificial intelligence system deployed by the deployer to ensure that the high-risk
artificial intelligence system is not causing algorithmic discrimination.


(4)(a) On and after February 1, 2026, and no later than the time that a deployer deploys a high-risk artificial intelligence system
to make, or be a substantial factor in making, a consequential decision concerning a consumer, the deployer shall:


(I) Notify the consumer that the deployer has deployed a high-risk artificial intelligence system to make, or be a substantial
factor in making, a consequential decision before the decision is made;


(II) Provide to the consumer a statement disclosing the purpose of the high-risk artificial intelligence system and the nature of
the consequential decision; the contact information for the deployer; a description, in plain language, of the high-risk artificial
intelligence system; and instructions on how to access the statement required by subsection (5)(a) of this section; and


(III) Provide to the consumer information, if applicable, regarding the consumer's right to opt out of the processing of personal
data concerning the consumer for purposes of profiling in furtherance of decisions that produce legal or similarly significant
effects concerning the consumer under section 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I)(C).


(b) On and after February 1, 2026, a deployer that has deployed a high-risk artificial intelligence system to make, or be a
substantial factor in making, a consequential decision concerning a consumer shall, if the consequential decision is adverse to
the consumer, provide to the consumer:


(I) A statement disclosing the principal reason or reasons for the consequential decision, including:




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              3
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703




(A) The degree to which, and manner in which, the high-risk artificial intelligence system contributed to the consequential
decision;


(B) The type of data that was processed by the high-risk artificial intelligence system in making the consequential decision; and


(C) The source or sources of the data described in subsection (4)(b)(I)(B) of this section;


(II) An opportunity to correct any incorrect personal data that the high-risk artificial intelligence system processed in making,
or as a substantial factor in making, the consequential decision; and


(III) An opportunity to appeal an adverse consequential decision concerning the consumer arising from the deployment of a
high-risk artificial intelligence system, which appeal must, if technically feasible, allow for human review unless providing the
opportunity for appeal is not in the best interest of the consumer, including in instances in which any delay might pose a risk
to the life or safety of such consumer.


(c)(I) Except as provided in subsection (4)(c)(II) of this section, a deployer shall provide the notice, statement, contact
information, and description required by subsections (4)(a) and (4)(b) of this section:


(A) Directly to the consumer;


(B) In plain language;


(C) In all languages in which the deployer, in the ordinary course of the deployer's business, provides contracts, disclaimers,
sale announcements, and other information to consumers; and


(D) In a format that is accessible to consumers with disabilities.


(II) If the deployer is unable to provide the notice, statement, contact information, and description required by subsections (4)
(a) and (4)(b) of this section directly to the consumer, the deployer shall make the notice, statement, contact information, and
description available in a manner that is reasonably calculated to ensure that the consumer receives the notice, statement, contact
information, and description.


(5)(a) On and after February 1, 2026, and except as provided in subsection (6) of this section, a deployer shall make available,
in a manner that is clear and readily available on the deployer's website, a statement summarizing:


(I) The types of high-risk artificial intelligence systems that are currently deployed by the deployer;


(II) How the deployer manages known or reasonably foreseeable risks of algorithmic discrimination that may arise from the
deployment of each high-risk artificial intelligence system described pursuant to subsection (5)(a)(I) of this section; and



               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              4
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703




(III) In detail, the nature, source, and extent of the information collected and used by the deployer.


(b) A deployer shall periodically update the statement described in subsection (5)(a) of this section.


(6) Subsections (2), (3), and (5) of this section do not apply to a deployer if, at the time the deployer deploys a high-risk artificial
intelligence system and at all times while the high-risk artificial intelligence system is deployed:


(a) The deployer:


(I) Employs fewer than fifty full-time equivalent employees; and


(II) Does not use the deployer's own data to train the high-risk artificial intelligence system;


(b) The high-risk artificial intelligence system:


(I) Is used for the intended uses that are disclosed to the deployer as required by section 6-1-1702(2)(a); and


(II) Continues learning based on data derived from sources other than the deployer's own data; and


(c) The deployer makes available to consumers any impact assessment that:


(I) The developer of the high-risk artificial intelligence system has completed and provided to the deployer; and


(II) Includes information that is substantially similar to the information in the impact assessment required under subsection (3)
(b) of this section.


(7) If a deployer deploys a high-risk artificial intelligence system on or after February 1, 2026, and subsequently discovers that
the high-risk artificial intelligence system has caused algorithmic discrimination, the deployer, without unreasonable delay, but
no later than ninety days after the date of the discovery, shall send to the attorney general, in a form and manner prescribed by
the attorney general, a notice disclosing the discovery.


(8) Nothing in subsections (2) to (5) and (7) of this section requires a deployer to disclose a trade secret or information protected
from disclosure by state or federal law. To the extent that a deployer withholds information pursuant to this subsection (8) or
section 6-1-1705(5), the deployer shall notify the consumer and provide a basis for the withholding.


(9) On and after February 1, 2026, the attorney general may require that a deployer, or a third party contracted by the deployer,
disclose to the attorney general, no later than ninety days after the request and in a form and manner prescribed by the attorney



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                  5
§ 6-1-1703. Deployer duty to avoid algorithmic discrimination--risk..., CO ST § 6-1-1703


general, the risk management policy implemented pursuant to subsection (2) of this section, the impact assessment completed
pursuant to subsection (3) of this section, or the records maintained pursuant to subsection (3)(f) of this section. The attorney
general may evaluate the risk management policy, impact assessment, or records to ensure compliance with this part 17, and
the risk management policy, impact assessment, and records are not subject to disclosure under the “Colorado Open Records
Act”, part 2 of article 72 of title 24. In a disclosure pursuant to this subsection (9), a deployer may designate the statement or
documentation as including proprietary information or a trade secret. To the extent that any information contained in the risk
management policy, impact assessment, or records includes information subject to attorney-client privilege or work-product
protection, the disclosure does not constitute a waiver of the privilege or protection.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1703, CO ST § 6-1-1703
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                     © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                   6
§ 6-1-1704. Disclosure of an artificial intelligence system to consumer, CO ST § 6-1-1704




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                      C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1704

                            § 6-1-1704. Disclosure of an artificial intelligence system to consumer

                                                           Currentness


(1) On and after February 1, 2026, and except as provided in subsection (2) of this section, a deployer or other developer that
deploys, offers, sells, leases, licenses, gives, or otherwise makes available an artificial intelligence system that is intended to
interact with consumers shall ensure the disclosure to each consumer who interacts with the artificial intelligence system that
the consumer is interacting with an artificial intelligence system.


(2) Disclosure is not required under subsection (1) of this section under circumstances in which it would be obvious to a
reasonable person that the person is interacting with an artificial intelligence system.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1704, CO ST § 6-1-1704
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                      © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                    1
§ 6-1-1705. Compliance with other legal obligations--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1705




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                        C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1705

                                § 6-1-1705. Compliance with other legal obligations--definitions

                                                             Currentness


(1) Nothing in this part 17 restricts a developer's, a deployer's, or other person's ability to:


(a) Comply with federal, state, or municipal laws, ordinances, or regulations;


(b) Comply with a civil, criminal, or regulatory inquiry, investigation, subpoena, or summons by a federal, a state, a municipal,
or other governmental authority;


(c) Cooperate with a law enforcement agency concerning conduct or activity that the developer, deployer, or other person
reasonably and in good faith believes may violate federal, state, or municipal laws, ordinances, or regulations;


(d) Investigate, establish, exercise, prepare for, or defend legal claims;


(e) Take immediate steps to protect an interest that is essential for the life or physical safety of a consumer or another individual;


(f) By any means other than the use of facial recognition technology, prevent, detect, protect against, or respond to security
incidents, identity theft, fraud, harassment, malicious or deceptive activities, or illegal activity; investigate, report, or prosecute
the persons responsible for any such action; or preserve the integrity or security of systems;


(g) Engage in public or peer-reviewed scientific or statistical research in the public interest that adheres to all other applicable
ethics and privacy laws and is conducted in accordance with 45 CFR 46, as amended, or relevant requirements established by
the federal food and drug administration;


(h) Conduct research, testing, and development activities regarding an artificial intelligence system or model, other than testing
conducted under real-world conditions, before the artificial intelligence system or model is placed on the market, deployed, or
put into service, as applicable; or


(i) Assist another developer, deployer, or other person with any of the obligations imposed under this part 17.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 1
§ 6-1-1705. Compliance with other legal obligations--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1705




(2) The obligations imposed on developers, deployers, or other persons under this part 17 do not restrict a developer's, a
deployer's, or other person's ability to:


(a) Effectuate a product recall; or


(b) Identify and repair technical errors that impair existing or intended functionality.


(3) The obligations imposed on developers, deployers, or other persons under this part 17 do not apply where compliance with
this part 17 by the developer, deployer, or other person would violate an evidentiary privilege under the laws of this state.


(4) Nothing in this part 17 imposes any obligation on a developer, a deployer, or other person that adversely affects the rights
or freedoms of a person, including the rights of a person to freedom of speech or freedom of the press that are guaranteed in:


(a) The first amendment to the United States constitution; or


(b) Section 10 of article II of the state constitution.


(5) Nothing in this part 17 applies to a developer, a deployer, or other person:


(a) Insofar as the developer, deployer, or other person develops, deploys, puts into service, or intentionally and substantially
modifies, as applicable, a high-risk artificial intelligence system:


(I) That has been approved, authorized, certified, cleared, developed, or granted by a federal agency, such as the federal food
and drug administration or the federal aviation administration, acting within the scope of the federal agency's authority, or by a
regulated entity subject to the supervision and regulation of the federal housing finance agency; or


(II) In compliance with standards established by a federal agency, including standards established by the federal office of the
national coordinator for health information technology, or by a regulated entity subject to the supervision and regulation of
the federal housing finance agency, if the standards are substantially equivalent or more stringent than the requirements of this
part 17;


(b) Conducting research to support an application for approval or certification from a federal agency, including the federal
aviation administration, the federal communications commission, or the federal food and drug administration or research to
support an application otherwise subject to review by the federal agency;


(c) Performing work under, or in connection with, a contract with the United States department of commerce, the United States
department of defense, or the national aeronautics and space administration, unless the developer, deployer, or other person is
performing the work on a high-risk artificial intelligence system that is used to make, or is a substantial factor in making, a
decision concerning employment or housing; or




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            2
§ 6-1-1705. Compliance with other legal obligations--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1705




(d) That is a covered entity within the meaning of the federal “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996”,
42 U.S.C. secs. 1320d to 1320d-9, and the regulations promulgated under the federal act, as both may be amended from time
to time, and is providing health-care recommendations that:


(I) Are generated by an artificial intelligence system;


(II) Require a health-care provider to take action to implement the recommendations; and


(III) Are not considered to be high risk.


(6) Nothing in this part 17 applies to any artificial intelligence system that is acquired by or for the federal government or any
federal agency or department, including the United States department of commerce, the United States department of defense,
or the national aeronautics and space administration, unless the artificial intelligence system is a high-risk artificial intelligence
system that is used to make, or is a substantial factor in making, a decision concerning employment or housing.


(7) An insurer, as defined in section 10-1-102(13), a fraternal benefit society, as described in section 10-14-102, or a developer
of an artificial intelligence system used by an insurer is in full compliance with this part 17 if the insurer, the fraternal benefit
society, or the developer is subject to the requirements of section 10-3-1104.9 and any rules adopted by the commissioner of
insurance pursuant to section 10-3-1104.9.


(8)(a) A bank, out-of-state bank, credit union chartered by the state of Colorado, federal credit union, out-of-state credit union,
or any affiliate or subsidiary thereof, is in full compliance with this part 17 if the bank, out-of-state bank, credit union chartered
by the state of Colorado, federal credit union, out-of-state credit union, or affiliate or subsidiary is subject to examination by
a state or federal prudential regulator under any published guidance or regulations that apply to the use of high-risk artificial
intelligence systems and the guidance or regulations:


(I) Impose requirements that are substantially equivalent to or more stringent than the requirements imposed in this part 17; and


(II) At a minimum, require the bank, out-of-state bank, credit union chartered by the state of Colorado, federal credit union,
out-of-state credit union, or affiliate or subsidiary to:


(A) Regularly audit the bank's, out-of-state bank's, credit union chartered by the state of Colorado's, federal credit union's, out-
of-state credit union's, or affiliate's or subsidiary's use of high-risk artificial intelligence systems for compliance with state and
federal anti-discrimination laws and regulations applicable to the bank, out-of-state bank, credit union chartered by the state of
Colorado, federal credit union, out-of-state credit union, or affiliate or subsidiary; and


(B) Mitigate any algorithmic discrimination caused by the use of a high-risk artificial intelligence system or any risk of
algorithmic discrimination that is reasonably foreseeable as a result of the use of a high-risk artificial intelligence system.


(b) As used in this subsection (8):



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                3
§ 6-1-1705. Compliance with other legal obligations--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1705




(I) “Affiliate” has the meaning set forth in section 11-101-401(3.5).


(II) “Bank” has the meaning set forth in section 11-101-401(5).


(III) “Credit union” has the meaning set forth in section 11-30-101(1)(a).


(IV) “Out-of-state bank” has the meaning set forth in section 11-101-401(50).


(9) If a developer, a deployer, or other person engages in an action pursuant to an exemption set forth in this section, the
developer, deployer, or other person bears the burden of demonstrating that the action qualifies for the exemption.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1705, CO ST § 6-1-1705
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                     © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                   4
§ 6-1-1706. Enforcement by attorney general, CO ST § 6-1-1706




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1706

                                          § 6-1-1706. Enforcement by attorney general

                                                            Currentness


(1) Notwithstanding section 6-1-103, the attorney general has exclusive authority to enforce this part 17.


(2) Except as provided in subsection (3) of this section, a violation of the requirements established in this part 17 constitutes
an unfair trade practice pursuant to section 6-1-105(1)(hhhh).


(3) In any action commenced by the attorney general to enforce this part 17, it is an affirmative defense that the developer,
deployer, or other person:


(a) Discovers and cures a violation of this part 17 as a result of:


(I) Feedback that the developer, deployer, or other person encourages deployers or users to provide to the developer, deployer,
or other person;


(II) Adversarial testing or red teaming, as those terms are defined or used by the national institute of standards and technology; or


(III) An internal review process; and


(b) Is otherwise in compliance with:


(I) The latest version of the “Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework” published by the national institute of
standards and technology in the United States department of commerce and standard ISO/IEC 42001 of the International
Organization for Standardization;


(II) Another nationally or internationally recognized risk management framework for artificial intelligence systems, if the
standards are substantially equivalent to or more stringent than the requirements of this part 17; or


(III) Any risk management framework for artificial intelligence systems that the attorney general, in the attorney general's
discretion, may designate and, if designated, shall publicly disseminate.



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               1
§ 6-1-1706. Enforcement by attorney general, CO ST § 6-1-1706




(4) A developer, a deployer, or other person bears the burden of demonstrating to the attorney general that the requirements
established in subsection (3) of this section have been satisfied.


(5) Nothing in this part 17, including the enforcement authority granted to the attorney general under this section, preempts or
otherwise affects any right, claim, remedy, presumption, or defense available at law or in equity. A rebuttable presumption or
affirmative defense established under this part 17 applies only to an enforcement action brought by the attorney general pursuant
to this section and does not apply to any right, claim, remedy, presumption, or defense available at law or in equity.


(6) This part 17 does not provide the basis for, and is not subject to, a private right of action for violations of this part 17 or
any other law.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1706, CO ST § 6-1-1706
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                      © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                    2
§ 6-1-1707. Rules, CO ST § 6-1-1707




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 17. Artificial Intelligence

                                                     C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1707

                                                      § 6-1-1707. Rules

                                                         Currentness


(1) The attorney general may promulgate rules as necessary for the purpose of implementing and enforcing this part 17,
including:


(a) The documentation and requirements for developers pursuant to section 6-1-1702(2);


(b) The contents of and requirements for the notices and disclosures required by sections 6-1-1702(5) and (7); 6-1-1703(4),
(5), (7), and (9); and 6-1-1704;


(c) The content and requirements of the risk management policy and program required by section 6-1-1703(2);


(d) The content and requirements of the impact assessments required by section 6-1-1703(3);


(e) The requirements for the rebuttable presumptions set forth in sections 6-1-1702 and 6-1-1703; and


(f) The requirements for the affirmative defense set forth in section 6-1-1706(3), including the process by which the attorney
general will recognize any other nationally or internationally recognized risk management framework for artificial intelligence
systems.


Credits
Added by Laws 2024, Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 1, eff. May 17, 2024.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1707, CO ST § 6-1-1707
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                    © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                  1
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 1. Consumer Protection--General (Refs & Annos)

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-105

                                   § 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions

                                                           Currentness


(1) A person engages in a deceptive trade practice when, in the course of the person's business, vocation, or occupation, the
person:


(a) Either knowingly or recklessly passes off goods, services, or property as those of another;


(b) Either knowingly or recklessly makes a false representation as to the source, sponsorship, approval, or certification of goods,
services, or property;


(c) Either knowingly or recklessly makes a false representation as to affiliation, connection, or association with or certification
by another;


(d) Uses deceptive representations or designations of geographic origin in connection with goods or services;


(e) Either knowingly or recklessly makes a false representation as to the characteristics, ingredients, uses, benefits, alterations,
or quantities of goods, food, services, or property or a false representation as to the sponsorship, approval, status, affiliation,
or connection of a person therewith;


(f) Represents that goods are original or new if he knows or should know that they are deteriorated, altered, reconditioned,
reclaimed, used, or secondhand;


(g) Represents that goods, food, services, or property are of a particular standard, quality, or grade, or that goods are of a
particular style or model, if he knows or should know that they are of another;


(h) Disparages the goods, services, property, or business of another by false or misleading representation of fact;


(i) Advertises goods, services, or property with intent not to sell them as advertised;




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              1
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(j) Advertises goods or services with intent not to supply reasonably expectable public demand, unless the advertisement
discloses a limitation of quantity;


(k) Advertises under the guise of obtaining sales personnel when in fact the purpose is to first sell a product or service to the
sales personnel applicant;


(l) Makes false or misleading statements of fact concerning the price of goods, services, or property or the reasons for, existence
of, or amounts of price reductions;


(m) Fails to deliver to the customer at the time of an installment sale of goods or services a written order, contract, or receipt
setting forth the name and address of the seller, the name and address of the organization which he represents, and all of the terms
and conditions of the sale, including a description of the goods or services, stated in readable, clear, and unambiguous language;


(n) Employs “bait and switch” advertising, which is advertising accompanied by an effort to sell goods, services, or property
other than those advertised or on terms other than those advertised and which is also accompanied by one or more of the
following practices:


(I) Refusal to show the goods or property advertised or to offer the services advertised;


(II) Disparagement in any respect of the advertised goods, property, or services or the terms of sale;


(III) Requiring tie-in sales or other undisclosed conditions to be met prior to selling the advertised goods, property, or services;


(IV) Refusal to take orders for the goods, property, or services advertised for delivery within a reasonable time;


(V) Showing or demonstrating defective goods, property, or services which are unusable or impractical for the purposes set
forth in the advertisement;


(VI) Accepting a deposit for the goods, property, or services and subsequently switching the purchase order to higher-priced
goods, property, or services; or


(VII) Failure to make deliveries of the goods, property, or services within a reasonable time or to make a refund therefor;


(o) Either knowingly or recklessly fails to identify flood-damaged or water-damaged goods as to such damages;


(p) Solicits door-to-door as a seller, unless the seller, within thirty seconds after beginning the conversation, identifies himself
or herself, whom he or she represents, and the purpose of the call;




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              2
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(p.3) to (p.7) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(q) Contrives, prepares, sets up, operates, publicizes by means of advertisements, or promotes any pyramid promotional scheme;


(r) Advertises or otherwise represents that goods or services are guaranteed without clearly and conspicuously disclosing the
nature and extent of the guarantee, any material conditions or limitations in the guarantee which are imposed by the guarantor,
the manner in which the guarantor will perform, and the identity of such guarantor. Any representation that goods or services
are “guaranteed for life” or have a “lifetime guarantee” shall contain, in addition to the other requirements of this paragraph (r),
a conspicuous disclosure of the meaning of “life” or “lifetime” as used in such representation (whether that of the purchaser,
the goods or services, or otherwise). Guarantees shall not be used which under normal conditions could not be practically
fulfilled or which are for such a period of time or are otherwise of such a nature as to have the capacity and tendency of
misleading purchasers or prospective purchasers into believing that the goods or services so guaranteed have a greater degree of
serviceability, durability, or performance capability in actual use than is true in fact. The provisions of this paragraph (r) apply
not only to guarantees but also to warranties, to disclaimer of warranties, to purported guarantees and warranties, and to any
promise or representation in the nature of a guarantee or warranty; however, such provisions do not apply to any reference to a
guarantee in a slogan or advertisement so long as there is no guarantee or warranty of specific merchandise or other property.


(s) and (t) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(u) Fails to disclose material information concerning goods, services, or property which information was known at the time of an
advertisement or sale if such failure to disclose such information was intended to induce the consumer to enter into a transaction;


(v) Disburses funds in connection with a real estate transaction in violation of section 38-35-125(2), C.R.S.;


(w) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(x) Violates sections 6-1-203 to 6-1-206 or part 7 of this article 1;


(y) Fails, in connection with any solicitation, oral or written, to clearly and prominently disclose immediately adjacent to or
after the description of any item or prize to be received by any person the actual retail value of each item or prize to be awarded.
For the purposes of this paragraph (y), the actual retail value is the price at which substantial sales of the item were made in the
person's trade area or in the trade area in which the item or prize is to be received within the last ninety days or, if no substantial
sales were made, the actual cost of the item or prize to the person on whose behalf any contest or promotion is conducted; except
that, whenever the actual cost of the item to the provider is less than fifteen dollars per item, a disclosure that “actual cost to
the provider is less than fifteen dollars” may be made in lieu of disclosure of actual cost. The provisions of this paragraph (y)
shall not apply to a promotion which is soliciting the sale of a newspaper, magazine, or periodical of general circulation, or to a
promotion soliciting the sale of books, records, audio tapes, compact discs, or videos when the promoter allows the purchaser to
review the merchandise without obligation for at least seven days and provides a full refund within thirty days after the receipt
of the returned merchandise or when a membership club operation is in conformity with rules and regulations of the federal
trade commission contained in 16 CFR 425.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 3
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(z) Refuses or fails to obtain all governmental licenses or permits required to perform the services or to sell the goods, food,
services, or property as agreed to or contracted for with a consumer;


(aa) Fails, in connection with the issuing, making, providing, selling, or offering to sell of a motor vehicle service contract, to
comply with the provisions of article 11 of title 42, C.R.S.;


(bb) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(cc) Engages in any commercial telephone solicitation which constitutes an unlawful telemarketing practice as described in
section 6-1-304;


(dd) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(ee) Intentionally violates any provision of article 10 of title 5, C.R.S.;


(ee.5) to (ff) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(gg) Fails to disclose or misrepresents to another person, a secured creditor, or an assignee by whom such person is retained
to repossess personal property whether such person is bonded in accordance with section 4-9-629, C.R.S., or fails to file such
bond with the attorney general;


(hh) Violates any provision of article 16 of this title;


(ii) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(jj) Represents to any person that such person has won or is eligible to win any award, prize, or thing of value as the result of
a contest, promotion, sweepstakes, or drawing, or that such person will receive or is eligible to receive free goods, services, or
property, unless, at the time of the representation, the person has the present ability to supply such award, prize, or thing of value;


(kk) Violates any provision of article 6 of this title;


(ll) Either knowingly or recklessly makes a false representation as to the results of a radon test or the need for radon mitigation;


(mm) Violates section 35-27-113(3)(e), (3)(f), or (3)(i), C.R.S.;


(nn) Repealed by Laws 2000, Ch. 2, § 1, eff. July 1, 2001.


(oo) Fails to comply with the provisions of section 35-80-108(1)(a), (1)(b), or (2)(f), C.R.S.;


                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 4
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(pp) Violates article 9 of title 42, C.R.S.;


(qq) Repealed by Laws 1999, Ch. 188, § 14, eff. May 18, 1999.


(rr) Violates the provisions of part 8 of this article;


(ss) Violates any provision of part 33 of article 32 of title 24 that applies to the installation of manufactured homes or tiny homes;


(tt) Violates any provision of part 9 of this article;


(uu) Violates section 38-40-105, C.R.S.;


(vv) Violates section 24-21-523(1)(f) or (1)(i) or 24-21-525(3), (4), or (5);


(ww) Violates any provision of section 6-1-702;


(xx) Violates any provision of part 11 of this article;


(yy) Repealed by Laws 2015, Ch. 259, § 7, eff. Aug. 5, 2015.


(zz) Violates any provision of section 6-1-717;


(aaa) Violates any provision of section 12-10-710;


(bbb) Violates any provision of section 12-10-713;


(ccc) Violates the provisions of section 6-1-722;


(ddd) Violates section 6-1-724;


(eee) Violates section 6-1-701;


(fff) Violates section 6-1-723;


(ggg) Violates section 6-1-725;



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                5
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(hhh) Either knowingly or recklessly represents that hemp, hemp oil, or any derivative of a hemp plant constitutes retail
marijuana or medical marijuana unless it fully satisfies the definition of such products pursuant to section 44-10-103(34) or (57);


(iii) Either knowingly or recklessly enters into, or attempts to enforce, an agreement regarding the recovery of an overbid on
foreclosed property if the agreement concerns the recovery of funds in the possession of:


(I) A public trustee prior to transfer of the funds to the state treasurer under section 38-38-111; or


(II) The state treasurer and does not meet the requirements for such an agreement as specified in section 38-13-1304;


(jjj) Violates section 6-1-726;


(kkk) Repealed by Laws 2022, Ch. 255 (H.B. 22-1287), § 27, eff. Oct. 1, 2022.


(lll) Violates article 20 of title 5;


(mmm) Violates section 12-30-112;


(nnn) Violates any provision of part 13 of this article 1 as specified in section 6-1-1311(1)(c);


(ooo) Violates part 14 of this article 1;


(ppp) Violates section 7-90-314(1);


(qqq) Violates part 15 of this article 1;


(rrr) Either knowingly or recklessly engages in any unfair, unconscionable, deceptive, deliberately misleading, false, or
fraudulent act or practice;


(sss) Violates this section as it applies to hemp, industrial hemp, industrial hemp products, intoxicating hemp, adult use cannabis
products, the plant cannabis sp., or anything derived from or produced from the plant cannabis sp.;


(ttt) Violates part 4 of article 10.1 of title 40;


(uuu) Violates section 12-10-403.5;




                 © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            6
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(vvv) Violates section 6-1-733;


(www) Violates section 25-18.9-104;


(xxx) Violates section 12-30-112, 12-30-113, 25-3-121, or 25-3-122;


(yyy) Violates section 25-49-106;


(zzz) Fails to comply with the requirements of section 12-280-142;


(aaaa) Charges, bills, or collects a facility fee or fails to comply with other provisions relating to facility fees in violation of
section 6-20-102(2) or (3);


(bbbb) Violates section 25.5-1-904;


(cccc) Sells or offers for sale a product or electronic smoking device that is age-restricted to a person who does not meet the
age restriction;


(dddd) Fails to register a mobile home park in violation of section 38-12-1106;


(eeee) Is a towing carrier and conducts a nonconsensual tow in violation of section 40-10.1-405;


(ffff) Fails to comply with the manufacturer requirements under the insulin affordability program pursuant to section 12-280-139
or the manufacturer requirements for the emergency supply of prescription insulin pursuant to section 12-280-140;


(gggg) Violates section 6-1-731.5; or


(hhhh) Violates part 17 of this article 1.


(iiii) Violates a provision of section 6-1-739.


(jjjj) Violates section 6-1-738.


(kkkk) Violates section 25-5-1602.


(llll) Violates section 42-4-221(12).




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              7
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105




(mmmm) Is a vehicle immobilization company and immobilizes a vehicle in violation of sections 40-10.1-802 to 40-10.1-812
or section 40-10.1-814.


(nnnn) Violated section 13-16-126.


(oooo) Violates article 29 of this title 6.


(pppp) Violates part 18 of this article 1.


(2) Evidence that a person has engaged in a deceptive trade practice shall be prima facie evidence of intent to injure competitors
and to destroy or substantially lessen competition.


(3) The deceptive trade practices listed in this section are in addition to and do not limit the types of unfair trade practices
actionable at common law or under other statutes of this state.


(4) As used in this section, unless the context otherwise requires:


(a) “Electronic smoking device” has the meaning set forth in section 25-14-203(4.5).


(b) “Recklessly” means a reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of a statement or advertisement.


Credits
Amended by Laws 1975, S.B.69, § 1, eff. July 1, 1975; Laws 1984, H.B.1271, § 2, eff. July 1, 1984; Laws 1984, H.B.1385, §
2, eff. July 1, 1984; Laws 1985, H.B.1159, § 2, eff. June 1, 1985; Laws 1987, H.B.1300, §§ 3, 4, eff. July 1, 1987; Laws 1988,
H.B.1236, § 2, eff. July 1, 1988; Laws 1988, H.B.1263, § 2, eff. July 1, 1988; Laws 1989, H.B.1195, § 2, eff. Jan. 1, 1990;
Laws 1989, H.B.1305, §§ 1, 4, eff. June 7, 1989; Laws 1990, H.B.90-1090, § 2, eff. July 1, 1990; Laws 1990, H.B.90-1243,
§ 2, eff. April 20, 1990; Laws 1991, H.B.91-1253, § 1, eff. May 16, 1991; Laws 1991, H.B.91-1264, § 1, eff. June 8, 1991;
Laws 1992, H.B.92-1314, § 2, eff. June 1, 1992; Laws 1992, S.B.92-17, § 2, eff. April 29, 1992; Laws 1993, H.B.93-1144, §
2, eff. July 1, 1993; Laws 1993, S.B.93-17, § 3, eff. July 1, 1993; Laws 1993, S.B.93-165, § 1, eff. July 1, 1993; Laws 1994,
H.B.94-1102, § 1, eff. July 1, 1994; Laws 1994, S.B.94-1, § 14, eff. Jan. 1, 1995; Laws 1994, S.B.94-23, § 10, eff. July 1, 1994;
Laws 1994, S.B.94-36, § 1, eff. April 20, 1994; Laws 1996, H.B.96-1137, § 1, eff. July 1, 1996; Laws 1996, H.B.96-1260, §
1, eff. July 1, 1996; Laws 1997, H.B.97-1105, § 13, eff. May 21, 1997; Laws 1997, H.B.97-1284, § 1, eff. July 1, 1997; Laws
1997, S.B.97-24, § 1, eff. July 1, 1997; Laws 1998, Ch. 213, § 2, eff. Aug. 5, 1998; Laws 1999, Ch. 188, §§ 3, 14, eff. May 18,
1999; Laws 2000, Ch. 2, § 1, eff. July 1, 2001; Laws 2000, Ch. 203, § 2, eff. Aug. 2, 2000; Laws 2000, Ch. 259, § 3, eff. July 1,
2001; Laws 2001, Ch. 321, § 37, eff. July 1, 2001; Laws 2001, Ch. 324, § 2, eff. Aug. 8, 2001; Laws 2002, Ch. 323, § 3, eff. June
7, 2002; Laws 2003, Ch. 29, § 3, eff. March 5, 2003; Laws 2004, Ch. 55, § 2, eff. March 23, 2004; Laws 2004, Ch. 130, § 2, eff.
Aug. 4, 2004; Laws 2006, Ch. 291, § 2, eff. May 30, 2006; Laws 2007, Ch. 210, § 1, eff. July 1, 2007; Laws 2007, Ch. 386, §
10, eff. June 1, 2007; Laws 2007, Ch. 387, § 5, eff. June 1, 2007; Laws 2010, Ch. 180, § 2, eff. Aug. 11, 2010; Laws 2013, Ch.
271, § 2, eff. May 24, 2013; Laws 2013, Ch. 399, § 2, eff. June 5, 2013; Laws 2014, Ch. 358, § 2, eff. Aug. 6, 2014; Laws 2015,
Ch. 199, § 7, eff. May 18, 2015; Laws 2015, Ch. 259, § 7, eff. Aug. 5, 2015; Laws 2016, Ch. 97, § 2, eff. Aug. 10, 2016; Laws
2016, Ch. 117, § 1, eff. Aug. 10, 2016; Laws 2016, Ch. 246, § 2, eff. July 1, 2016; Laws 2017, Ch. 207, § 4, eff. July 1, 2018;
Laws 2018, Ch. 36, § 1, eff. Aug. 8, 2018; Laws 2018, Ch. 55, § 4, eff. Oct. 1, 2018; Laws 2019, Ch. 110 (S.B. 19-088), § 2, eff.



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            8
§ 6-1-105. Unfair or deceptive trade practices--definitions, CO ST § 6-1-105


July 1, 2020; Laws 2019, Ch. 136 (H.B. 19-1172), § 8, eff. Oct. 1, 2019; Laws 2019, Ch. 157 (S.B. 19-002), § 3, eff. Aug. 2,
2019; Laws 2019, Ch. 171 (H.B. 19-1174), § 1, eff. Jan. 1, 2020; Laws 2019, Ch. 268 (H.B. 19-1289), § 2, eff. May 23, 2019;
Laws 2019, Ch. 315 (S.B. 19-224), § 8, eff. Jan. 1, 2020; Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 3, eff. July 1, 2023; Laws 2022,
Ch. 21 (H.B. 22-1099), § 2, eff. Jan. 1, 2023; Laws 2022, Ch. 172 (H.B. 22-1242), § 25, eff. Aug. 10, 2022; Laws 2022, Ch. 255
(H.B. 22-1287), § 27, eff. Oct. 1, 2022; Laws 2022, Ch. 278 (S.B. 22-205), § 3, eff. May 31, 2022; Laws 2022, Ch. 326 (S.B.
22-034), § 2, eff. Feb. 1, 2023; Laws 2022, Ch. 327 (H.B. 22-1031), § 1, eff. Jan. 1, 2023; Laws 2022, Ch. 416 (H.B. 22-1314),
§ 12, eff. Aug. 10, 2022; Laws 2022, Ch. 446 (H.B. 22-1284), § 6, eff. Aug. 10, 2022; Laws 2023, Ch. 50 (S.B. 23-077), § 2,
eff. Aug. 7, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 61 (S.B. 23-037), § 1, eff. Aug. 7, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 63 (S.B. 23-150), § 2, eff. Aug.
7, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 152 (S.B. 23-093), § 6, eff. May 4, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 275 (S.B. 23-176), § 4, eff. May 30, 2023;
Laws 2023, Ch. 277 (H.B. 23-1215), § 3, eff. May 30, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 305 (S.B. 23-252), § 1, eff. Aug. 7, 2023; Laws
2023, Ch. 376 (H.B. 23-1257), § 2, eff. June 5, 2023; Laws 2023, Ch. 447 (H.B. 23-1002), § 4, eff. Aug. 7, 2023; Laws 2024,
Ch. 198 (S.B. 24-205), § 2, eff. May 17, 2024; Laws 2024, Ch. 292 (H.B. 24-1051), § 7, eff. Aug. 7, 2024; Laws 2024, Ch. 346
(H.B. 24-1356), § 2, eff. June 3, 2024; Laws 2024, Ch. 351 (H.B. 24-1438), § 1, eff. June 3, 2024; Laws 2024, Ch. 402 (S.B.
24-011), § 3, eff. Aug. 7, 2024; Laws 2025, Ch. 92 (H.B. 25-1217), § 3, eff. Aug. 6, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 279 (H.B. 25-1197),
§ 3, eff. Aug. 6, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 313 (S.B. 25-071), § 1, eff. Aug. 6, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 391 (H.B. 25-1117), § 4, eff.
June 3, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 407 (H.B. 25-1329), § 2, eff. Aug. 6, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 412 (S.B. 25-282), § 3, eff. Aug. 6,
2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 427 (S.B. 25-299), § 3, eff. Aug. 6, 2025; Laws 2025, Ch. 438 (H.B. 25-1161), § 2, eff. Aug. 6, 2025.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-105, CO ST § 6-1-105
Current through the First Regular and Extraordinary Sessions, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute sections may be
more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 9
