                                                                                       Attachment B
                                                                                  Version: 3/17/2025
                                     Civil Rights Council
                Final Unmodified Text of Proposed Employment Regulations
                         Regarding Automated-Decision Systems

                                     CALIFORNIA CODE OF REGULATIONS
                                            Title 2. Administration
                             Div. 4.1. Department of Fair Employment & Housing
                               Chapter 5. Fair Employment & Housing Council
                                 Subchapter 2. Discrimination in Employment


                                                  TEXT

                       Text proposed to be added is displayed in underline type.
                     Text proposed to be deleted is displayed in strikethrough type.

  NOTE: Unrelated modifications to Cal. Code Regs., tit. 2, section 11017.1, made through rulemaking
      (OAL Matter Number 2023-0609-06), became operative after the Initial Text for Proposed
Modifications to Employment Regulations Regarding Automated-Decision Systems (“Initial Text”) had
been finalized. Accordingly, the Initial Text includes outdated language for section 11017.1. In this first
  modified text, section 11017.1 has been updated to reflect its current language, and those updates
are not subject to public comment since they do not represent proposed modifications to existing law.
 However, the proposed modifications to section 11017.1 for purposes of this rulemaking, which have
  been incorporated into the current text and are displayed as described above, are subject to public
                                                 comment.

                                        Article 1. General Matters

                                           § 11008. Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) Reserved.

(b) “Agent.” An agent includes any person acting on behalf of an employer, directly or indirectly, to
exercise a function traditionally exercised by the employer or any other FEHA-regulated activity, which
may include applicant recruitment, applicant screening, hiring, promotion, or decisions regarding pay,
benefits, or leave, including when such activities and decisions are conducted in whole or in part
through the use of an automated decision system. An agent of an employer is also an “employer” for
purposes of the Act.

(a)(c) “Applicant.” Any individual who files a written application or, where an employer or other covered
entity does not provide an application form, any individual who otherwise indicates a specific desire to
an employer or other covered entity to be considered for employment. Except for recordkeeping
purposes, “Applicant” is also an individual who can prove that he or she hasthey have been deterred
from applying for a job by an employer’s or other covered entity’s alleged discriminatory practice.
“Applicant” does not include an individual who without coercion or intimidation willingly withdraws his
or hertheir application prior to being interviewed, tested or hired.

(b)(d) “Apprenticeship Training Program.” Any apprenticeship program, including local or state joint
apprenticeship committees, subject to the provision of Chapter 4 of Division 3 of the California Labor
Code, section 3070 et seq.

(c)(e) “Employee.” Any individual under the direction and control of an employer under any
appointment or contract of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or written.

        (1) “Employee” does not include an independent contractor as defined in Labor Code section
        3353.

        (2) “Employee” does not include any individual employed by his or hertheir parents, by his or
        hertheir spouse, or by his or hertheir child.

        (3) “Employee” does not include any individual employed under special license in a non-profit
        sheltered workshop or rehabilitation facility.

        (4) An employment agency is not an employee of the person or individual for whom it procures
        employees.

        (5) An individual compensated by a temporary service agency for work to be performed for an
        employer contracting with the temporary service agency is an employee of that employer for
        such terms, conditions and privileges of employment under the control of that employer. Such
        an individual also is an employee of the temporary service agency with regard to such terms,
        conditions and privileges of employment under the control of the temporary service agency.

(d)(f) “Employer.” Any person or individual engaged in any business or enterprise regularly employing
five or more individuals, including individuals performing any service under any appointment, contract
of hire or apprenticeship, express or implied, oral or written.

        (1) “Regularly employing” means employing five or more individuals for any part of the day on
        which the unlawful conduct allegedly occurred, or employing five or more employees on a
        regular basis.

        (A) “Regular basis” refers to the nature of a business that is recurring, rather than constant. For
        example, in an industry that typically has a three-month season during a calendar year, an
        employer that employs five or more employees during that season “regularly employs” the
        requisite number of employees. Thus, to be covered by the Act, an employer need not have five
        or more employees working every day throughout the year or have five or more employees at
        the time of the allegedly unlawful conduct, so long as at least five employees are regularly on its
        payroll during the season.

        (B) Part-time employees, including those who work partial days and fewer than each day of the
        work week, will be counted the same as full-time employees. For example, for counting
        purposes, an employer has five employees when three work every day and two work alternate
        days to fill one position, and there are no more than four employees working on any working

                                                     2
        day. Employees on paid or unpaid leave, including California Family Rights Act (CFRA), parenting
        leave, pregnancy leave, leave of absence, disciplinary suspension, or any other employer-
        approved leave of absence, are counted.

        (C) Employees located inside and outside of California are counted in determining whether
        employers are covered under the Act. However, employees located outside of California are not
        themselves covered by the protections of the Act if the allegedly unlawful conduct did not occur
        in California, or the allegedly unlawful conduct was not ratified by decision makers or
        participants in unlawful conduct located in California.

        (2) The means for counting five employees described in this subsection also applies to counting
        employees for purposes of establishing coverage under Government Code sections 12945.2,
        12945.6, and 12950.1.

        (3) Any person or individual acting as an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly, is also an
        employer.

        (4) “Employer” includes the State of California, any political or civil subdivision thereof, counties,
        cities, city and county, local agencies, or special districts, irrespective of whether that entity
        employs five or more individuals.

        (5) A religious association or religious corporation not organized for private profit is not an
        employer under the meaning of this Act; any non-profit religious organization exempt from
        federal and state income tax as a non-profit religious organization is presumed not to be an
        employer under this Act. Notwithstanding such status, any portion of such tax exempt religious
        association or religious corporation subject to state or federal income taxes as an unrelated
        business and regularly employing five or more individuals is an employer.

        (6) “Employer” includes any non-profit corporation or non-profit association other than that
        defined in subsection (5).

(e)(g) “Employer or Other Covered Entity.” Any employer, employment agency, labor organization or
apprenticeship training program as defined herein and subject to the provisions of the Act.

(f)(h) “Employment Agency.” An employment agency includes Aany person undertaking, for
compensation, to procure the procurement of job applicants, employees or opportunities to work,
including persons undertaking these services through the use of an automated-decision system.

(g)(i) “Employment Benefit.” Except as otherwise provided in the Act, any benefit of employment
covered by the Act, including hiring, employment, promotion, selection for training programs leading to
employment or promotions, freedom from disbarment” or discharge from employment or a training
program, compensation, provision of a discrimination-free workplace, and any other favorable term,
condition or privilege of employment.

        (1) For a labor organization, “employment benefit” includes all rights and privileges of
        membership, including freedom from exclusion, expulsion or restriction of membership, second
        class or segregated membership, discrimination in the election of officers or selection of staff, or
        any other action against a member or any employee or person employed by an employer.

                                                      3
        (2) “Employment benefit” also includes the selection or training of any person for, or freedom
        from termination from, an unpaid internship or another limited duration program to provide
        unpaid work experience for that person in any apprenticeship training program or any other
        training program leading to employment or promotion.

        (3) “Provision of a discrimination-free workplace” is a provision of a workplace free of
        harassment, as defined in section 11019(b).

(h)(j) “Employment Practice.” Any act, omission, policy or decision of an employer or other covered
entity affecting any of an individual’s employment benefits or consideration for an employment benefit.

(i)(k) “Labor Organization.” Any organization that exists and is constituted for the purpose, in whole or in
part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers regarding grievances, terms or conditions of
employment, or of providing other mutual aid or protection.

(j)(l) “Person performing services pursuant to a contract.” A person who meets all of the following
criteria: 1) has the right to control the performance of the contract for services and discretion as to the
manner of performance; 2) is customarily engaged in an independently established business; and 3) has
control over the time and place the work is performed, supplies the tools and instruments used in the
work, and performs work that requires a particular skill not ordinarily used in the course of the
employer’s work.

(m) “Proxy.” A characteristic or category closely correlated with a basis protected by the Act.

(k)(n) “Unpaid interns and volunteers.” For purposes of the Act, any individual (often a student or
trainee) who works without pay for an employer or other covered entity, in any unpaid internship or
another limited duration program to provide unpaid work experience, or as a volunteer. Unpaid interns
and volunteers may or may not be employees.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12925, 12926, 12940,
12941 and 12942, Government Code; Campbell v. Arco Marine, Inc. (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1850; Sims v.
Worldpac Inc. (N.D. Cal. Feb. 22, 2013) 2013 WL 663277; Raines v. U.S. Healthworks Medical Group
(2023) 15 Cal. 5th 268.

                                 § 11008.1. Automated-Decision Systems

(a) “Automated-Decision System.” A computational process that makes a decision or facilitates human
decision making regarding an employment benefit, as defined in section 11008(i) of these regulations.
An Automated-Decision System may be derived from and/or use artificial intelligence, machine-learning,
algorithms, statistics, and/or other data processing techniques.

        (1) Automated-Decision Systems perform tasks such as:

        (A) Using computer-based assessments or tests, such as questions, puzzles, games, or other
        challenges to:

                (i) Make predictive assessments about an applicant or employee;

                                                     4
                (ii) Measure an applicant’s or employee’s skills, dexterity, reaction-time, and/or other
                abilities or characteristics;

                (iii) Measure an applicant’s or employee’s personality trait, aptitude, attitude, and/or
                cultural fit; and/or

                (iv) Screen, evaluate, categorize, and/or recommend applicants or employees.

        (B) Directing job advertisements or other recruiting materials to targeted groups;

        (C) Screening resumes for particular terms or patterns;

        (D) Analyzing facial expression, word choice, and/or voice in online interviews; or

        (E) Analyzing employee or applicant data acquired from third parties.

        (2) “Automated-Decision System” excludes word processing software, spreadsheet software,
        map navigation systems., web hosting, domain registration, networking, caching, website-
        loading, data storage, firewalls, anti-virus, anti-malware, spam- and robocall-filtering,
        spellchecking, calculators, database, or similar technologies, provided that these technologies
        do not make a decision regarding an employment benefit.

(b) “Algorithm.” A set of rules or instructions a computer follows to perform calculations or other
problem-solving operations. Algorithms can, for example, detect patterns in datasets and automate
decisions-making based on those patterns and datasets.

(c) “Artificial Intelligence.” A machine-based system that infers, from the input it receives, how to
generate outputs. Outputs can include predictions, content, recommendations, or decisions.

(d) “Automated-Decision System Data.”

        (1) Any data used in or resulting from the application of an automated-decision system, such as
        data provided by or about individual applicants or employees, or data reflecting employment
        decisions or outcomes; and/or

        (2) Any data used to develop or customize an automated-decision system for use by a particular
        employer or other covered entity.

(e) “Machine Learning.” The ability for a computer to use and learn from its own analysis of data or
experience and apply this learning automatically in future calculations or tasks.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12926, 12940,
Government Code.




                                                     5
                           § 11009. Principles of Employment Discrimination.

(a) Unlawful Practices and Individual Relief. In allegations of employment discrimination, a finding that
an employer or other covered entity has engaged in an unlawful employment practice is not dependent
upon a showing of individual back pay or other compensable liability. Upon a finding that an employer
or other covered entity has engaged in an unlawful employment practice and on order of appropriate
relief, a severable and separate showing may be made that the complainant, complainants or class of
complainants is entitled to individual or personal relief including, but not limited to, hiring,
reinstatement or upgrading, back pay, restoration to membership in a labor organization, or other relief
in furtherance of the purpose of the Act.

(b) Liability of Employers. In view of the common law theory of respondeat superior and its codification
in California Civil Code section 2338, an employer or other covered entity shall be liable for the
discriminatory actions of its supervisors, managers or agents committed within the scope of their
employment or relationship with the employer or other covered entity or, as defined in section
11019(b), for the discriminatory actions of its employees where it is demonstrated that, as a result of
any such discriminatory action, the applicant or employee has suffered a loss of or has been denied an
employment benefit.

(c) Discrimination is established if a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates that an enumerated
basis was a substantial motivating factor in the denial of an employment benefit to that individual by the
employer or other covered entity, and the denial is not justified by a permissible defense. This standard
applies only to claims of discrimination on a basis enumerated in Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (a), and to claims of retaliation under Government Code section 12940, subdivision (h). This
standard does not apply to other practices made unlawful by the Fair Employment and Housing Act,
including, but not limited to, harassment, denial of reasonable accommodation, failure to engage in the
interactive process, and failure to provide leaves under Government Code sections 12945 and 12945.2.
A substantial factor motivating the denial of the employment benefit is a factor that a reasonable
person would consider to have contributed to the denial. It must be more than a remote or trivial factor.
It does not have to be the only cause of the denial.

(d) An applicant or employee who is a victim of human trafficking, as that term is used in Civil Code
section 52.5 and Penal Code section 236.1, may have a separate right of action under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act if he or shethey alleges discrimination on a basis protected by the Act.
Nothing in this regulation shall limit any claims an individual may have under other California laws
prohibiting human trafficking.

(e) It is unlawful for anyone to discriminate against a person who serves in an unpaid internship or any
other limited-duration program to provide unpaid work experience in the selection, termination,
training, or other terms and treatment of that person on any basis protected by the Act.

(f) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system or
selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that discriminates
against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on a basis protected by the Act,
subject to any available defense. Relevant to any such claim or available defense is evidence, or the lack
of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid unlawful discrimination, including



                                                    6
the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the results of such testing or other effort, and the
response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12941, 12942 and 12961, Government Code; Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203.

                                          § 11013. Recordkeeping.

Employers and other covered entities are required to maintain certain relevant records of personnel
actions. Each employer or other covered entity subject to this section shall retain at all times at each
reporting unit, or at company or divisional headquarters, a copy of the most recent California Employer
Information Report (CEIR) or appropriate substitute and applicant identification records for each such
unit and shall make them available upon request to any officer, agent, or employee of the Council or
Department.

(a) California Employer Information Report. All employers regularly employing one hundred or more
employees, apprenticeship programs with five or more apprentices and at least one sponsoring
employer with 25 or more employees and at least one sponsoring union, which operates a hiring hall or
has 25 or more members, and labor organizations with 100 or more members shall prepare an annual
CEIR in conformity with guidelines on reporting issued by the Department.

        (1) Substituting Federal Reports. An employer or other covered entity may utilize an appropriate
        federal report in lieu of the CEIR. Appropriate federal reports include the EEOC’s EEO-1, EEO-2,
        EEO-3, EEO-4, EEO-5, and EEO-6 reports and appropriate reports filed with the Office of Federal
        Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP).

        (2) Sample Forms and Guidelines. Appropriate copies of sample forms and applicable guidelines
        shall be available to any employer or other covered entity from the Civil Rights Department.

        (3) Special Reporting. If an employer or other covered entity is engaged in activities for which
        the standard reporting criteria are not appropriate, special reporting procedures may be
        required. In such case, the employer or other covered entity should so advise the Department
        and submit a specific proposal for an alternative reporting system prior to the date on which the
        report should be prepared. If it is claimed that the preparation of the report would create undue
        hardship, an employer may apply to the Department for an exemption from the requirements of
        this section.

        (4) Remedy for Failure to Prepare or Make Reports Available. Upon application by the CRD or
        CRC for judicial relief, any employer failing or refusing to prepare or to make available reports as
        required under this section may be compelled to do so by a Superior Court of California.

        (5) Penalties for False Statements. The willful making of false statements on a CEIR or other
        required record is a violation of California Government Code section 12976, and is punishable by
        fine or imprisonment as set forth therein.

(b) Applicant Identification Records. Unless otherwise prohibited by law and for recordkeeping purposes
only, every employer or other covered entity shall maintain data regarding the race, sex, and national
origin of each applicant and for the job for which he or shethey applied. If such data is to be provided on

                                                      7
an identification form, this form shall be separate or detachable from the application form itself.
Employment decisions shall not be based on whether an applicant has provided this information, nor
shall the applicant identification information be used for discriminatory purposes, except pursuant to a
bona fide affirmative action or non-discrimination plan.

        (1) For recordkeeping purposes only, “applicant” means any individual who files a formal
        application or, where an employer or other covered entity does not provide application forms,
        any individual who otherwise indicates to the employer or other covered entity a specific desire
        to be considered for employment. An individual who simply appears to make an informal inquiry
        or who files an unsolicited resume upon which no employment action is taken is not an
        applicant.

        (2) An employer or other covered entity shall either retain the original documents used to
        identify applicants, or keep statistical summaries of the collected information.

        (3) Applicant records shall be preserved for the time period set forth in subdivisions (c)(1) and
        (2) below.

(c) Preservation of Records. Any personnel or other employment records made or kept created or
received by any employer or other covered entity dealing with any employment practice and affecting
any employment benefit of any applicant or employee (including all applications, personnel,
membership or employment referral records or files) shall be preserved by the employer or other
covered entity for a period of twofour years from the date of the making of the record or the date of the
personnel action involved, whichever occurs later. This includes all applications, personnel records,
membership records, employment referral records, selection criteria, automated-decision system data,
and other records created or received by the employer or other covered entity dealing with any
employment practice and affecting any employment benefit of any applicant or employee.

        (1) California Employment Information Report. Every employer subject to subsection (a) above
        shall preserve for a period of two four years from the date of preparation of the CEIR such
        records as were necessary for completion of the CEIR.

        (2) Applicant Identification Records. Every employer subject to subsection (b) above shall
        preserve applicant identification information for a period of two four years from the date it was
        received.

        (3) Separate Records on Sex, Race, and National Origin. Records as to the sex, race, or national
        origin of any individual accepted for employment shall be kept separately from the employee’s
        main personnel file or other records available to those responsible for personnel decisions. For
        example, such records could be kept as part of an automatic data processing system in the
        payroll department.

        (4) After Filing of Complaint. Upon notice of or knowledge that a complaint has been filed
        against it under the Act, any respondent, including the State Personnel Board, shall maintain
        and preserve any and all relevant records and files until such complaint is fully and finally
        disposed of and all appeals from related proceedings have concludedthe later of the following:

        (A) The first date after the period of time for filing a civil action has expired.

                                                       8
        (B) The first date after the complaint has been fully and finally disposed of and all administrative
        proceedings, civil actions, appeals, or related proceedings have terminated.

        (A5) For purposes of this subsection, “related proceedings” shall include any action brought in
        Superior Court pursuant to section 12965 of the Government Code.

        (B6) The term “records and files relevant to the complaint” shall include, but is not limited to,
        personnel or employment records relating to the complaining party and to all other employees
        holding similar positions to that held or sought by the complainant at the facility or other
        relevant subdivision where the discriminatory practice allegedly occurred. The term also
        includes automated-decision system data as well as applications, forms or test papers
        completed by the complainant and by all other candidates for the same position at that facility
        or other relevant subdivision where the employment practice occurred. All relevant records
        made or kept pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) above shall also preserved.

        (C7) The term “fully and finally disposed of and all administrative proceedings, civil actions,
        appeals, or from related proceedings have concludedterminated” refers to the expiration of the
        statutory period within which a complainant or respondent may bring an action in Superior
        Court, or an agreement has been reached by the parties whereby no further judicial review is
        available to any of the parties, or a final order has been entered by a body of judicial review for
        which the time for filing a notice of appeal has expired.

(d) Posting of Act. Every employer or other covered entity shall post in a conspicuous place or places on
its premises a notice to be prepared and distributed by the Department, which sets forth excerpts of the
Act and such relevant information the Department deems necessary to explain the Act. Such employers
employing significant numbers, no less than 10% of their work force, of non-English-speaking persons
(e.g., Chinese or Spanish speaking) at any facility or establishment must also post in the appropriate
foreign language at each such facility or establishment. Such notices may be obtained from the
Department.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12940 and 12946,
Government Code.

                               Article 2. Particular Employment Practices

                                           § 11015. Definitions.

(a) “Recruitment.” The practice of any employer or other covered entity that has the purpose or effect
of informing any individual about an employment opportunity, or assisting an individual to apply for
employment, an activity leading to employment, membership in a labor organization, acceptance in an
apprenticeship training program, or referral by an employment agency.

(b) “Date of Determination to Hire.” The time at which an employer or other covered entity has made an
offer of employment to the individual.




                                                     9
(c) “Pre-employment Inquiry.” Any oral or written request made by an employer or other covered entity
for information concerning the qualifications of an applicant for employment or for entry into an activity
leading to employment.

(d) “Application.” Except for recordkeeping purposes, any writing or other device, including but not
limited to an automated-decision system, used by an employer or other covered entity to make a pre-
employment inquiry or submitted to an employer or other covered entity for the purpose of seeking
consideration for employment.

(e) “Placement.” Any status, category, rank, level, location, department, division, program, duty or
group of duties, or any other similar classification or position for which an employee can be selected or
to which an employee can be assigned by any employment practice. Employment practices that can
determine placement in this way include, but are not limited to: hiring, discharge, promotion, transfer,
callback, or other change of classification or position; inclusion in membership in any group or
organization; any referral assignment to any place, unit, division, status or type of work.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940
and 12942, Government Code.

                                   § 11016. Pre-Employment Practices

(a) Recruitment.

        (1) Duty Not to Discriminate. Any employer or other covered entity engaged in recruitment
        activity shall recruit in a non-discriminatory manner. However, nothing in these regulations shall
        preclude affirmative efforts to utilize recruitment practices to attract an individual who is a
        member of an underrepresented protected class covered by the Act.

        (2) Prohibited Recruitment Practices. An employer or other covered entity shall not, unless
        pursuant to a permissible defense, engage in any recruitment activity, including but not limited
        to practices accomplished through the use of an automated-decision system, that:

        (A) Restricts, excludes, or classifies individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act;

        (B) Expresses a preference for individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act; or

        (C) Communicates or uses advertising methods to communicate the availability of employment
        benefits in a manner intended to discriminate on a basis enumerated in the Act.

(b) Pre-employment Inquiries.

        (1) Limited Permissible Inquiries. An employer or other covered entity may make any pre-
        employment inquiries that do not discriminate on a basis enumerated in the Act. Inquiries,
        including but not limited to inquiries made through the use of an automated-decision system,
        that directly or indirectly identify an individual on a basis enumerated in the Act are unlawful
        unless made pursuant to a permissible defense.



                                                     10
        (A) An employer may make, in connection with prospective employment, an inquiry as to, or a
        request for information regarding, the physical fitness, medical condition, physical condition, or
        medical history of applicants if the inquiry or request for information complies with the
        provisions of sections 11067, 11070 and 11071 of these regulations.

        (B) Pre-employment inquiries regarding an applicant’s availability for work on certain days and
        times shall not be used to ascertain the applicant’s religious creed, disability, or medical
        condition. Such inquiries must clearly communicate that an employee need not disclose any
        scheduling restrictions based on legally protected grounds, in language such as: “Other than
        time off for reasons related to your religion, a disability, or a medical condition, are there any
        days or times when you are unavailable to work?” or “Other than time off for reasons related to
        your religion, a disability, or a medical condition, are you available to work the proposed
        schedule?”

        (2) Applicant Flow and Other Statistical Recordkeeping. Notwithstanding any prohibition in
        these regulations on pre-employment inquiries, it is not unlawful for an employer or other
        covered entity to collect applicant-flow and other recordkeeping data for statistical purposes as
        provided in section 11013(b) of these regulations or in other provisions of state and federal law.

(c) Applications.

        (1) Application Forms. When employers or other covered entities provide, accept, and consider
        application forms in the normal course of business, in so doing they shall not discriminate on a
        basis enumerated in the Act.

        (2) Photographs. Photographs shall not be required as part of an application unless pursuant to
        a permissible defense.

        (3) Schedule Information. An application’s request for information related to schedule and
        availability for work shall not be used to ascertain the applicant’s religious creed, disability, or
        medical condition. Such requests must clearly communicate that an employee need not disclose
        any scheduling restrictions based on legally protected grounds in language such as: “Other than
        time off for reasons related to your religion, a disability, or a medical condition, are there any
        days or times when you are unavailable to work?” or “Other than time off for reasons related to
        your religion, a disability, or a medical condition, are you available to work the proposed
        schedule?”

        (A) The use of online application technology that limits, or screens out, ranks, or prioritizes
        applicants based on their schedule may have a disparate impact on discriminate against
        applicants based on their religious creed, disability, or medical condition. Such a practice having
        an adverse impact is unlawful unless job-related and consistent with business necessity and the
        online application technology includes a mechanism for the applicant to request an
        accommodation.

        (4) Separation or Coding. Application forms shall not be separated or coded, manually or
        electronically, or otherwise treated so as to identify individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act
        unless pursuant to a permissible defense or for recordkeeping or statistical purposes.


                                                    11
        (5) Automated-Decision Systems. The use of an automated-decision system that, for example,
        measures an applicant’s skill, dexterity, reaction time, and/or other abilities or characteristics
        may discriminate against individuals with certain disabilities or other characteristics protected
        under the Act. To avoid unlawful discrimination, an employer or other covered entity may need
        to provide reasonable accommodation to an applicant as required by Article 8 (religious creed)
        or Article 9 (disability) of these regulations.

(d) Interviews or Other Screening of Applicants. Personal iInterviews or other screening of applicants
shall be free of discrimination. Notwithstanding any internal safeguards taken to secure a
discrimination-free atmosphere in interviews or other screening of applicants, the entire interview or
other screening process is subject to review for adverse impact on individuals discrimination on a basis
enumerated in the Act.

        (1) Automated-Decision Systems. An automated-decision system that, for example, analyzes an
        applicant's tone of voice, facial expressions or other physical characteristics or behavior may
        discriminate against individuals based on race, national origin, gender, disability, or other
        characteristics protected under the Act. To avoid unlawful discrimination, an employer or other
        covered entity may need to provide reasonable accommodation to an applicant as required by
        Article 8 (religious creed) or Article 9 (disability) of these regulations.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12941 and 12942, Government Code.

                                      § 11017. Employee Selection.

(a) Selection and Testing. Any policy or practice of an employer or other covered entity that has an
adverse impact on employment opportunities of individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act is unlawful
unless the policy or practice is job-related and consistent with business necessity (business necessity is
defined in section 11010(b)). The Council herein adopts the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection
Procedures promulgated by various federal agencies, including the EEOC and Department of Labor. [29
C.F.R. 1607 (1978)].

(b) Placement. Placements that are less desirable in terms of location, hours or other working conditions
are unlawful where such assignments segregate, or otherwise discriminate against individuals on a basis
enumerated in the Act, unless otherwise made pursuant to a permissible defense to employment
discrimination. An assignment labeled or otherwise deemed to be “protective” of a category of persons
on a basis enumerated in the Act is unlawful unless made pursuant to a permissible defense. (See also
section 11041 regarding permissible transfers on account of pregnancy by employees not covered under
Title VII of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964.)

(c) Promotion and Transfer. An employer or other covered entity shall not restrict information on
promotion and transfer opportunities to certain employees or classes of employees when the restriction
has the effect of discriminating on a basis enumerated in the Act.

        (1) Requests for Transfer or Promotion. An employer or other covered entity who considers bids
        or other requests for promotion or transfer shall do so in a manner that does not discriminate
        against individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act, unless pursuant to a permissible defense.


                                                    12
        (2) Training. Where training that may make an employee eligible for promotion and/or transfer
        is made available, it shall be made available in a manner that does not discriminate against
        individuals on a basis enumerated in the Act.

        (3) No-Transfer Policies. Where an employment practice has operated in the past to segregate
        employees on a basis enumerated in the Act, a no-transfer policy or other practice that has the
        effect of maintaining a continued segregated pattern is unlawful.

(d) Specific Practices.

        (1) Criminal Records. See Section 11017.1.

        (2) Height Standards. Height standards that discriminate on a basis enumerated in the Act shall
        not be used by an employer or other covered entity to deny an individual an employment
        benefit, unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

        (3) Weight Standards. Weight standards that discriminate on a basis enumerated in the Act shall
        not be used by an employer or other covered entity to deny an individual an employment
        benefit, unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

(e) Permissible Selection Devices. A testing device, automated-decision system, or other means of
selection that is facially neutral, but that has an adverse impact (as defined in the Uniform Guidelines on
Employee Selection Procedures (29 C.F.R. 1607 (1978)) upon persons on a basis enumerated in the Act,
is permissible only upon a showing that the selection practice is job-related and consistent with business
necessity (business necessity is defined in section 11010(b)).

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940
and 12941, Government Code.

                  § 11017.1. Consideration of Criminal History in Employment Decisions.

(a) Prohibition of Consideration of Criminal History Prior to a Conditional Offer of Employment. Except in
the circumstances addressed in subsection (a)(4) below, employers and other covered entities
("employers" for purposes of this section) are prohibited from inquiring into, considering, distributing,
or disseminating information related to the criminal history of an applicant until after the employer has
made a conditional offer of employment to the applicant.

        (1) Prohibited consideration under this subsection includes, but is not limited to, inquiring about
        criminal history through an employment application, background check, or internet searches, or
        the use of an automated-decision system.

        (2) Employers are prohibited from including statements in job advertisements, postings,
        applications, or other materials that no persons with criminal history will be considered for hire,
        such as "No Felons" or "Must Have Clean Record."

        (3) Employers who violate the prohibition on inquiring into criminal history prior to making a
        conditional offer of employment may not, after extending a conditional offer of employment,


                                                     13
        use an applicant's failure to disclose criminal history prior to the conditional offer as a factor in
        subsequent employment decisions, including denial of the position conditionally offered.

        (4) The prohibition against inquiring about or using any criminal history before a conditional
        offer of employment has been made does not apply in the following circumstances (though use
        of such criminal history, either during the application process or during employment, is still
        subject to the requirements in subsections (b) and (d)-(g)):

        (A) If the position is one for which an employer is otherwise required by law to conduct a
        conviction history background check where the employer is a state or local agency;

        (B) If the position is with a criminal justice agency, as defined in Section 13101 of the Penal
        Code;

        (C) If the position is as a Farm Labor Contractor, as described in Section 1685 of the Labor Code;
        or

        (D) If the position is one that an employer or an employer's agent is required by any state,
        federal, or local law to conduct criminal background checks for employment purposes or to
        restrict employment based on criminal history. Federal law, for purposes of this provision,
        includes rules or regulations promulgated by a self-regulatory organization as defined in
        Section 3(a)(26) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(26).

        (5) For the exemptions set forth in subsection (a)(4)(A) and (a)(4)(D) to apply, the employer or
        the employer's agent must be required by law to conduct the criminal background check. A
        state, federal, or local law requiring another entity, such as an occupational licensing board, to
        conduct a criminal background check will not exempt an employer from the prohibitions set
        forth in this subsection and other requirements of this section.

        (6) If an applicant raises their criminal history voluntarily prior to receiving a conditional offer,
        the employer must not consider any information the employer is prohibited from considering
        under subsection (b). In addition, an employer is prohibited from considering any other
        conviction history information until after making a conditional offer of employment, unless
        subsection (a)(4) applies.

(b) Prohibition of Consideration of Certain Types of Criminal History. Employers are prohibited from
inquiring into, considering, distributing, or disseminating information regarding the following types of
criminal history prior to making a conditional offer, after a conditional offer has been made, and in any
other subsequent employment decisions such as decisions regarding promotion, training, discipline, lay-
off, and termination:

        (1) An arrest or detention that did not result in conviction (Labor Code section 432.7 (see limited
        exceptions in subdivisions (a)(1) for an arrest for which the employee or applicant is out on bail
        or on their own recognizance pending trial and (f)(1) for specified positions at health facilities);
        Government Code section 12952);

        (2) Referral to or participation in a pretrial or post-trial diversion program (Labor Code
        section 432.7 and Government Code section 12952);

                                                      14
       (A) While employers are prohibited from considering referral to or participation in a pretrial or
       post-trial diversion program, it is permissible to consider these programs as evidence of
       rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances after a conditional offer has been made if offered by
       the applicant as evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances.

       (B) While employers are prohibited from considering referral to or participation in a pretrial or
       post-trial diversion program, until a pretrial or post-trial diversion program is completed and the
       underlying pending charges or conviction dismissed, sealed, or eradicated, employers may still
       consider the conviction or pending charges themselves after a conditional offer is made.

       (3) A conviction that has been judicially dismissed or ordered sealed, expunged or statutorily
       eradicated pursuant to law (e.g., juvenile offense records sealed pursuant to Welfare and
       Institutions Code section 389 and Penal Code sections 851.7 or 1203.45) or any conviction for
       which the person has received a full pardon or has been issued a certificate of rehabilitation
       (Id.);

       (4) An arrest, detention, processing, diversion, supervision, adjudication, or court disposition
       that occurred while a person was subject to the process and jurisdiction of juvenile court law
       (Labor Code section 432.7); and

       (5) A non-felony conviction for possession of marijuana that is two or more years old (Labor
       Code section 432.8).

       (6) In addition to the limitations provided in subsections (b)(1)-(5), employers that obtain
       investigative consumer reports such as background checks are also subject to the requirements
       of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq.) and the California Investigative
       Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (Civil Code section 1786 et seq.).

       (7) Employers may also be subject to local laws or city ordinances that provide additional
       limitations.

(c) Requirements if an Employer Intends to Deny an Applicant the Employment Conditionally Offered
Because of the Applicant's Conviction History.

       (1) Initial Individualized Assessment. If an employer intends to deny an applicant the
       employment position they were conditionally offered based solely or in part on the applicant's
       conviction history, the employer must first conduct an individualized assessment -- a reasoned,
       evidence-based determination of whether the applicant's conviction history has a direct and
       adverse relationship with the specific duties of the job that justify denying the applicant the
       position.

       (A) The standard for determining what constitutes a direct and adverse relationship that justifies
       denying the applicant the position is the same standard described in subsection (f)(4).

               (i) An applicant's possession of a benefit, privilege, or right required for the performance
               of a job by a licensing, regulatory, or government agency or board is probative of the


                                                   15
       applicant's conviction history not being directly and adversely related to the specific
       duties of that job.

(B) The individualized assessment must include, at a minimum, consideration of the following
factors:

       (i) The nature and gravity of the offense or conduct. Consideration of this factor may
       include but is not limited to:

               (I) The specific personal conduct of the applicant that resulted in the conviction;

               (II) Whether the harm was to property or people;

               (III) The degree of the harm (e.g., amount of loss in theft);

               (IV) The permanence of the harm;

               (V) The context in which the offense occurred;

               (VI) Whether a disability, including but not limited to a past drug addiction or
               mental impairment, contributed to the offense or conduct, and if so, whether
               the likelihood of harm arising from similar conduct could be sufficiently
               mitigated or eliminated by a reasonable accommodation, or whether the
               disability has been mitigated or eliminated by treatment or otherwise;

               (VII) Whether trauma, domestic or dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
               human trafficking, duress, or other similar factors contributed to the offense or
               conduct; and/or

               (VIII) The age of the applicant when the conduct occurred.

       (ii) The time that has passed since the offense or conduct and/or completion of the
       sentence. Consideration of this factor may include but is not limited to:

               (I) The amount of time that has passed since the conduct underlying the
               conviction, which may significantly predate the conviction itself; and/or

               (II) When the conviction led to incarceration, the amount of time that has
               passed since the applicant's release from incarceration.

       (iii) The nature of the job held or sought. Consideration of this factor may include but is
       not limited to:

               (I) The specific duties of the job;

               (II) Whether the context in which the conviction occurred is likely to arise in the
               workplace; and/or


                                            16
                (III) Whether the type or degree of harm that resulted from the conviction is
                likely to occur in the workplace.

(C) To the extent that any evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances, as described in
subsections (c)(2)(D)(i)-(ii), is voluntarily provided by the applicant, or by another party at the
applicant's request, before or during the initial individualized assessment, that evidence must be
considered as part of the initial individualized assessment. In doing so, an employer may
consider, but is not limited to considering, the factors set forth in subsection (c)(1)(B) and
subsection (c)(3) as they relate to the evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances.

(2) Notice of Preliminary Decision and Opportunity for Applicant Response. If, after conducting
an initial individualized assessment, the employer makes a preliminary decision that the
applicant's conviction history disqualifies the applicant from the employment conditionally
offered, the employer shall notify the applicant of the preliminary decision in writing. The
written notice to the applicant may, but is not required to, justify or explain the employer's
reasoning for making the decision. However, the notice to the applicant must include all of the
following:

(A) Notice of the disqualifying conviction or convictions that are the basis for the preliminary
decision to rescind the offer.

(B) A copy of the conviction history report utilized or relied on by the employer, if any (such
reports include, but are not limited to: consumer reports, credit reports, public records, results
of internet searches, news articles, or any other writing containing information related to the
conviction history that was utilized or relied upon by the employer).

(C) Notice of the applicant's right to respond to the notice before the preliminary decision
rescinding the offer of employment becomes final.

(D) An explanation informing the applicant that, if the applicant chooses to respond, the
response may include submission of either or both of the following types of evidence: evidence
challenging the accuracy of the conviction history report that is the basis for the preliminary
decision to rescind the offer, or evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances.

        (i) Evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances may include, but is not limited
        to, the items listed in paragraphs (I)-(X) below. Any such evidence of rehabilitation or
        mitigating circumstances is optional and may only be voluntarily provided by the
        applicant or by another party at the applicant's request.

                (I) The length and consistency of employment history before and after the
                offense or conduct;

                (II) The facts or circumstances surrounding the offense or conduct;

                (III) The applicant's current or former participation in self-improvement efforts,
                including but not limited to school, job training, counseling, community service,
                and/or a rehabilitation program, including in-custody programs;


                                            17
        (IV) Whether trauma, domestic or dating violence, sexual assault, stalking,
        human trafficking, duress, or other similar factors contributed to the offense or
        conduct;

        (V) The age of the applicant when the conduct occurred;

        (VI) Whether a disability, including but not limited to a past drug addiction or
        mental impairment, contributed to the offense or conduct, and, if so, whether
        the likelihood of harm arising from similar conduct could be sufficiently
        mitigated or eliminated by a reasonable accommodation, or whether the
        disability has been mitigated or eliminated by treatment or otherwise;

        (VII) The likelihood that similar conduct will recur;

        (VIII) Whether the applicant is bonded under a federal, state, or local bonding
        program;

        (IX) The fact that the applicant is seeking employment; and/or

        (X) Successful completion, or compliance with the terms and conditions, of
        probation or parole.

(ii) Documentary evidence may include, but is not limited to, the items listed in
paragraphs (I)-(V) below. Any such documentary evidence is optional and may only be
voluntarily provided by the applicant or by another party at the applicant's request.

        (I) Certificates or other documentation of participation in, enrollment in, or
        completion of an educational, vocational, training, counseling, community
        service, or rehabilitation program, including in-custody programs;

        (II) Letters from current or former teachers, counselors, supervisors, co-workers,
        parole or probation officers, or others who know the applicant;

        (III) Police reports, protective orders, and/or documentation from healthcare
        providers, counselors, case managers, or victim advocates who can attest to the
        applicant's status as a survivor of domestic or dating violence, sexual assault,
        stalking, or comparable offenses;

        (IV) Documentation confirming the existence of a disability; and/or

        (V) Any other document demonstrating rehabilitation or mitigating
        circumstances.

(iii) An employer is prohibited from the following actions:

        (I) Refusing to accept additional evidence voluntarily provided by an applicant,
        or by another party at the applicant's request, at any stage of the hiring process


                                    18
                 (including prior to making a preliminary decision to rescind the applicant's job
                 offer);

                 (II) Requiring an applicant to submit any of the additional evidence described in
                 this subsection at any time in the hiring process;

                 (III) Requiring an applicant to provide a specific type of documentary evidence
                 (e.g., a police report as evidence of domestic or dating violence), or disqualifying
                 an applicant from the employment conditionally offered for failing to provide
                 any specific type of documents or other evidence;

                 (IV) Requiring an applicant to disclose their status as a survivor of domestic or
                 dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or comparable statuses; and/or

                 (V) Requiring an applicant to produce medical records and/or disclose the
                 existence of a disability or diagnosis.

(E) Notice of the deadline for the applicant to respond, if the applicant chooses to do so.

        (i) The deadline for providing a response must be at least five business days from the
        date of receipt of the notice. An employer may offer an applicant more than five
        business days to respond to the notice regarding its preliminary decision.

        (ii) If notice is transmitted through a format that does not provide a confirmation of
        receipt, such as a written notice mailed by an employer without tracking delivery
        enabled, the notice shall be deemed received five calendar days after the mailing is
        deposited for delivery for California addresses, ten calendar days after the mailing for
        addresses outside of California, and twenty calendar days after mailing for addresses
        outside of the United States.

        (iii) If notice is transmitted through email, the notice shall be deemed received two
        business days after it is sent.

(F) If the applicant timely notifies the employer in writing that the applicant disputes the
accuracy of the conviction history being relied upon and that the applicant is taking specific
steps to obtain evidence supporting the applicant's assertion, then the applicant shall be
permitted no fewer than five additional business days to respond to the notice before the
employer's decision to rescind the employment offer becomes final.

(3) Reassessment. The employer shall consider any information submitted by the applicant
before making a final decision regarding whether or not to rescind the conditional offer of
employment. When considering evidence of rehabilitation or mitigating circumstances provided
by the applicant, or by another party at the applicant's request, the employer may consider, but
is not limited to, the following factors, in addition to the factors set forth in subsection (c)(1)(B),
as applicable:




                                              19
        (A) When the conviction led to incarceration, the applicant's conduct during incarceration,
        including participation in work and educational or rehabilitative programming and other
        prosocial conduct;

        (B) The applicant's employment history since the conviction or completion of sentence;

        (C) The applicant's community service and engagement since the conviction or completion of
        sentence, including but not limited to volunteer work for a community organization,
        engagement with a religious group or organization, participation in a support or recovery group,
        and other types of civic participation; and/or

        (D) The applicant's other rehabilitative efforts since the completion of sentence or conviction or
        mitigating factors not captured in the above subfactors.

        (4) Final Decision. If the employer makes a final decision to rescind the conditional offer and
        deny an application based solely or in part on the applicant's conviction history, the employer
        shall notify the applicant in writing. The employer may, but is not required to, use the sample
        final notice form available on the Department's website. However, any notice to the applicant
        must includes the following:

        (A) The final denial or disqualification decision reached. The employer may also include, but is
        not required to include, the justification or an explanation of the employer's reasoning for
        reaching the decision that it did;

        (B) Any procedure the employer has for the applicant to challenge the decision or request
        reconsideration; and

        (C) The right to contest the decision by filing a complaint with the Civil Rights Department.

(d) Labor contractors, union hiring halls, and client employers.

        (1) A labor contractor, union hiring hall, and client employer are governed in the same way by
        section 11017.1 of these regulations as are other employers.

        (2) A labor contractor or union hiring hall may not decline to admit a worker to a pool or
        availability list, discontinue a worker's inclusion in a pool or availability list, or decline to refer a
        worker to a position with a client employer, because of the worker's criminal history unless the
        labor contractor or union hiring hall has complied with the procedures and requirements
        outlined in section 11017.1 of these regulations. To the extent labor contractors or union hiring
        halls place applicants into a pool of workers from which individuals may be assigned to a variety
        of positions, the labor contractors or union hiring halls must still comply with the requirements
        of section 11017.1, including the individualized assessment of whether any conviction history
        being considered has a direct and adverse relationship with the specific duties of the jobs for
        which the applicant may be assigned from the pool or hall.

        (3) If a labor contractor or union hiring hall re-conducts inquiries into criminal history to
        maintain the eligibility of workers admitted to a pool or availability list, then it must comply with
        the procedures and requirements outlined in section 11017.1 of these regulations. When re-

                                                       20
        conducting an inquiry, labor contractors or union hiring halls cannot satisfy the requirements of
        subsection (c) if they disqualify a worker from retention in a pool based on conviction history
        that was already considered and deemed not disqualifying for entry into the pool in the first
        place unless the decision is based on new material developments such as changes to job duties,
        legal requirements, or experience or data regarding the particular convictions involved.

        (4) A client employer may inquire into or consider the conviction history of a worker supplied by
        a labor contractor or union hiring hall only after extending a conditional offer of employment to
        the worker and when following the procedures described in subsections (a) - (c), unless the
        specific position is exempted pursuant to subsection (a)(4). A client employer violates this
        section by instructing labor contractors or union hiring halls to refer only workers without
        conviction records, unless exempted by subsection (a)(4).

(e) Disparate Treatment. The Act also prohibits employers from treating applicants or employees
differently in the course of considering criminal conviction history, or any evidence of rehabilitation or
mitigating circumstances, if the disparate treatment is substantially motivated by a basis protected by
the Act.

(f) Adverse Impact. In addition to the types of criminal history addressed in subsection (b) that
employers are explicitly prohibited from inquiring about or considering unless an exception applies,
consideration of other forms of criminal convictions, not enumerated above, may have an adverse
impact on applicants or employees on a basis protected by the Act, including, but not limited to, gender,
race, and national origin.

        (1) An applicant or employee bears the burden of demonstrating that the policy of considering
        criminal convictions has an adverse impact on a basis protected by the Act.

        (2) Consistent with sections 11017 and 11010 of these regulations and the Uniform Guidelines
        on Employee Selection Procedures ( 29 C.F.R. part 1607 (1978)) incorporated by reference in
        sections 11017(a) and (e), adverse impact includes a substantial disparity in the rate of selection
        in hiring, promotion, or other employment decisions which works to the disadvantage of groups
        of individuals on the basis of any characteristics protected by the Act.

        (3) An adverse impact may be established through the use of statistics or by offering any other
        evidence that establishes an adverse impact. State- or national-level statistics on conviction
        records that show a substantial disparity based on any characteristic protected by the Act are
        presumptively sufficient to establish an adverse impact. This presumption may be rebutted by a
        showing that there is a reason to expect a markedly different result after accounting for any
        particularized circumstances such as the geographic area encompassed by the applicant or
        employee pool, the particular types of convictions being considered, or the particular job at
        issue.

        (4) Establishing "Job-Related and Consistent with Business Necessity."

        (A) If the policy or practice of considering criminal convictions creates an adverse impact on
        applicants or employees on a basis protected by the Act, the burden shifts to the employer to
        establish that the policy is nonetheless justifiable because it is job-related and consistent with
        business necessity. The policy or practice needs to bear a demonstrable relationship to

                                                     21
successful performance on the job and in the workplace and measure the person's fitness for
the specific position(s), not merely to evaluate the person in the abstract. In order to establish
job-relatedness and business necessity, any employer must demonstrate that the policy or
practice is appropriately tailored, taking into account at least the following factors:

        (i) The nature and gravity of the offense or conduct;

        (ii) The time that has passed since the offense or conduct and/or completion of the
        sentence; and

        (iii) The nature of the job held or sought.

(B) Demonstrating that a policy or practice of considering conviction history in employment
decisions is appropriately tailored to the job for which it is used as an evaluation factor requires
that an employer demonstrate the applicant's or employee's conviction history has a direct and
adverse relationship with the specific duties of the job that justify denying the applicant or
employee the position.

(C) Bright-line conviction disqualification or consideration policies or practices that include
conviction-related information that is seven or more years old are subject to a rebuttable
presumption that they are not sufficiently tailored to meet the job-related and consistent with
business necessity affirmative defense (except if justified by subsection (g) below).

(D) An individualized assessment must involve notice to the adversely impacted applicant or
employee (before any adverse action is taken) that they have been screened out or otherwise
denied an employment opportunity because of a criminal conviction; if more than one
conviction appeared on the background report, which conviction(s) were found disqualifying; a
reasonable opportunity for the individuals to demonstrate that the exclusion should not be
applied due to their particular circumstances; and consideration by the employer as to whether
the additional information provided by the individuals or otherwise obtained by the employer
warrants an exception to the exclusion and shows that the policy as applied to the applicant or
employee is not job -related and consistent with business necessity.

(E) Before an employer may take an adverse action such as discharging, laying off, or declining
to promote an adversely impacted individual based on conviction history obtained by a source
other than the applicant or employee (e.g. through a credit report or internally generated
research), the employer must give the impacted individual notice of the disqualifying conviction
and a reasonable opportunity to present evidence that the information is factually inaccurate. If
the applicant or employee establishes that the record is factually inaccurate, then that
information cannot be considered in the employment decision.

(5) Less Discriminatory Alternatives. If an employer demonstrates that its policy or practice of
considering conviction history is job-related and consistent with business necessity, adversely
impacted employees or applicants may still prevail under the Act if they can demonstrate that
there is a less discriminatory policy or practice that serves the employer's goals as effectively as
the challenged policy or practice, such as a more narrowly targeted list of convictions or another
form of inquiry that evaluates job qualification or risk as accurately without significantly
increasing the cost or burden on the employer.

                                             22
(g) Compliance with Federal or State Laws, Regulations, or Licensing Requirements Requiring
Consideration of Criminal History. In some instances, employers are subject to federal or state laws or
regulations that prohibit individuals with certain criminal records from holding particular positions or
occupations or mandate a screening process employers are required or permitted to utilize before
employing individuals in such positions or occupations (e.g., 21 U.S.C. § 830(e)(1)(G); Labor Code
sections 432.7). Examples include, but are not limited to, government agencies employing individuals as
peace officers, employers employing individuals at health facilities where they will have regular access
to patients, and employers employing individuals at health facilities or pharmacies where they will have
access to medication or controlled substances. Some federal and state laws and regulations make
criminal history a determining factor in eligibility for occupational licenses (e.g., 49 U.S.C. § 31310).
Compliance with federal or state laws or regulations that mandate particular criminal history screening
processes or requiring that an employee or applicant possess or obtain any required occupational
licenses constitute rebuttable defenses to an adverse impact claim under the Act.

(h) Claims under the Fair Chance Act, codified at Government Code section 12952, are subject to the
procedures set forth in Article 1 of Chapter 7 of the Act, including Government Code section 12965, and
the Department's procedural regulations. An individual may file a complaint for investigation by the
Department or may obtain an immediate right-to-sue notice.

(i) Employers Seeking the Work Opportunity Tax Credit. An employer who wishes to claim the Work
Opportunity Tax Credit ("WOTC") provided for under federal law is not exempt from this section or
Section 12952 of the Act.

        (1) An employer may require an applicant to complete IRS form 8850 ("Pre-Screening Notice and
        Certification Request for the Work Opportunity Credit"), as revised March 2016, or its
        equivalent, before a conditional offer is made, so long as the information gathered is used solely
        for the purpose of applying for the WOTC. In particular, no applicant may be asked the basis of
        their qualification for the WOTC other than in the form of questions that do not encourage or
        force an applicant to identify themselves as a person who has been convicted of a felony or
        released from prison following a felony conviction rather than as a person who qualifies for the
        WOTC under one of the several bases listed in Question 2 on form 8850. Information regarding
        an applicant's criminal history obtained from the applicant's form 8850 may only be considered
        as otherwise provided by law.

        (2) An employer may require an applicant to complete U.S. Department of Labor Employment
        and Training Administration form 9061 ("Individual Characteristics Form (ICF) Work Opportunity
        Tax Credit"), as revised November 2016, or its equivalent, only after a conditional offer has been
        made. Information regarding an applicant's criminal history obtained from the applicant's form
        9061 may only be considered as otherwise provided by law.

        (3) An employer must maintain any forms, documents, or information used to complete the
        forms described in this subsection in confidential files separate from the applicant's general
        personnel file and shall not use or disseminate these forms, documents, or information for any
        purpose other than applying for the WOTC.

(j) Definitions. For purposes of section 11017.1 of these regulations only:


                                                    23
        (1) "Applicant" includes, in addition to the individuals within the scope of the general definition
        in section 11008(a) of these regulations, individuals who have been conditionally offered
        employment, even if they have commenced employment when the employer undertakes a post-
        conditional offer review and consideration of criminal history; existing employees who have
        applied or indicated a specific desire to be considered for a different position with their current
        employer; and an existing employee who is subjected to a review and consideration of criminal
        history because of a change in ownership, management, policy, or practice. An employer cannot
        evade the requirements of Government Code section 12952 or this regulation by having an
        individual lose their status as an "applicant" by working before undertaking a post-conditional
        offer review of the individual's criminal history.

        (2) "Employer" includes a labor contractor and a client employer; any direct and joint employer;
        any entity that evaluates the applicant's conviction history on behalf of an employer, or acts as
        an agent of an employer, directly or indirectly; any staffing agency; and any entity that selects,
        obtains, or is provided workers from a pool or availability list.

        (3) "Client employer" means a business entity, regardless of its form, that selects workers from a
        pool or availability list, or obtains or is provided workers to perform labor within its usual course
        of business from a labor contractor.

        (4) "Labor contractor" means an individual or entity, either with or without a contract, which
        supplies a client employer with, or maintains a pool or availability list of, workers to perform
        labor within the client employer's usual course of business. This definition is not intended to
        include Farm Labor Contractors.

        (5) "Hiring hall" means an agency or office operated by a union, by an employer and union, or by
        a state or local employment service, to provide and place employees for specific jobs.

        (6) "Pool or availability list" means applicants or employees admitted into entry in the hiring hall
        or other hiring pool utilized by one or more employers and/or provided by a labor contractor for
        use by prospective employers.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12946 and 12952, Government Code.

                                       § 11020. Aiding and Abetting.

(a) Prohibited Practices.

        (1) It is unlawful to assist any person or individual in doing any act known to constitute unlawful
        employment discrimination.

        (2) It is unlawful to incite, solicit, or encourage any person or individual to violate the Act,
        whether or not the Act is in fact violated.

        (3) It is unlawful to coerce any person or individual to commit unlawful employment
        discrimination with offers of cash, other consideration, or an employment benefit, or to impose
        or threaten to impose any penalty, including denial of an employment benefit.

                                                      24
        (4) It is unlawful to conceal or destroy evidence relevant to investigations initiated by the
        Department or its staff.

        (5) It is unlawful to advertise for employment on a basis prohibited in the Act.

        (6)
                (i) The prohibited practices set forth in paragraphs (1)-(5) include any such practice
                conducted in whole or in part through the use of an automated-decision system.

                (ii) Relevant to a claim of employment discrimination or an available defense of that
                claim is evidence, or the lack of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts
                to avoid unlawful discrimination, including the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of
                such effort, the results of such testing or other effort, and the response to the results.

(b) Permissible Practices.

        (1) It shall not be unlawful, without more, to have been present during the commission of acts
        amounting to unlawful discrimination or to fail to prevent or report such acts, unless it is the
        normal business duty of the person or individual to prevent or report such acts.

        (2) It shall not be unlawful to maintain good faith lawful defenses or privileges to charges of
        discrimination.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12941 and 12942, Government Code.

                             Article 4. National Origin and Ancestry Discrimination

                                    § 11028. Specific Employment Practices.

(a) Language Restrictions.

        (1) It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer or other covered entity to adopt or
        enforce a policy that limits or prohibits the use of any language in the workplace, including, but
        not limited to, an English-only rule, unless:

        (A) The language restriction is justified by business necessity;

        (B) The language restriction is narrowly tailored; and

        (C) The employer has effectively notified its employees of the circumstances and time when the
        language restriction is required to be observed and of the consequence for violating the
        language restriction.

        (2) For purposes of this subsection, “business necessity” means an overriding legitimate
        business purpose, such that:


                                                      25
        (A) The language restriction is necessary to the safe and efficient operation of the business;

        (B) The language restriction effectively fulfills the business purpose it is supposed to serve; and

        (C) There is no alternative practice to the language restriction that would accomplish the
        business purpose equally well with a lesser discriminatory impact.

        (3) It is not sufficient that the employer’s language restriction merely promotes business
        convenience or is due to customer or co-worker preference.

        (4) English-only rules violate the Act unless the employer can prove the elements listed in
        section 11028, subdivisions (a)(1)(A)-(C). English-only rules are never lawful during an
        employee’s non-work time, e.g., breaks, lunch, unpaid employer-sponsored events, etc.

(b) Employment dDiscrimination based on an applicant’s or employee’s accent is unlawful unless the
employer proves that the individual’s accent interferes materially with the applicant’s or employee’s
ability to perform the job in question. This prohibition also applies where such discrimination resulted,
in whole or in part, from an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an automated-decision system
or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy).

(c) Discrimination based on an applicant’s or employee’s English proficiency is unlawful unless the
English proficiency requirement at issue is justified by business necessity (i.e., the level of proficiency
required by the employer is necessary to effectively fulfill the job duties of the position.) In determining
business necessity in this context, relevant factors include, but are not limited to, the type of proficiency
required (e.g., spoken, written, aural, and/or reading comprehension), the degree of proficiency
required, and the nature and job duties of the position. This prohibition also applies where such
discrimination resulted, in whole or in part, from an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an
automated-decision system or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or
proxy).

(d) It is not unlawful for an employer to request from an applicant or employee information regarding
his or hertheir ability to speak, read, write, or understand any language, including languages other than
English, if justified by business necessity.

(e) Retaliation. It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer or other covered entity to
retaliate against any individual because the individual has opposed discrimination or harassment on the
basis of national origin, has participated in the filing of a complaint, or has testified, assisted, or
participated in any other manner in a proceeding in which national origin discrimination or harassment
has been alleged. Retaliation may include, but is not limited to:

        (1) threatening to contact or contacting immigration authorities or a law enforcement agency
        about the immigration status of the employee, former employee, applicant, or a family member
        (e.g., spouse, domestic partner, parent, sibling, child, uncle, aunt, niece, nephew, cousin,
        grandparent, great-grandparent, grandchild, or great-grandchild, by blood, adoption, marriage,
        or domestic partnership) of the employee, former employee, or applicant; or




                                                     26
        (2) taking adverse action against an employee because the employee updates or attempts to
        update personal information based on a change of name, social security number, or
        government-issued employment documents.

(f) Immigration-related Practices.

        (1) All provisions of the Act and these regulations apply to undocumented applicants and
        employees to the same extent that they apply to any other applicant or employee. An
        employee’s or applicant’s immigration status is irrelevant during the liability phase of any
        proceeding brought to enforce the Act.

        (2) Discovery or other inquiry into an applicant’s or employee’s immigration status shall not be
        permitted unless the person seeking discovery or making the inquiry has shown by clear and
        convincing evidence that such inquiry is necessary to comply with federal immigration law.

        (3) It is an unlawful practice for an employer or other covered entity to discriminate against an
        employee because of the employee’s or applicant’s immigration status, unless the employer has
        shown by clear and convincing evidence that it is required to do so in order to comply with
        federal immigration law. This prohibition also applies where such discrimination resulted, in
        whole or in part, from an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an automated-decision
        system or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy).

        (4) It is an unlawful practice for an employer or other covered entity to retaliate, as described in
        subdivision (e), against an employee for engaging in activity protected by the Act.

(g) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to discriminate against an applicant or
employee because he or shethey holds or presents a driver’s license issued under section 12801.9 of the
Vehicle Code. This prohibition also applies where such discrimination resulted, in whole or in part, from
an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an automated-decision system or selection criteria
(including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy).

        (1) An employer or other covered entity may require an applicant or employee to hold or
        present a license issued under the Vehicle Code only if:

        (A) Possession of a driver’s license is required by state or federal law; or

        (B) Possession of a driver’s license is required by the employer or other covered entity and is
        otherwise permitted by law. An employer’s or other covered entity’s policy requiring applicants
        or employees to present or hold a driver’s license may be evidence of a violation of the Act if the
        policy is not uniformly applied or is inconsistent with legitimate business reasons (i.e.,
        possessing a driver’s license is not needed in order to perform an essential function of the job).

        (2) Nothing in this subsection shall limit or expand an employer’s authority to require an
        applicant or employee to possess a driver’s license.

        (3) Nothing in this subsection shall alter an employer’s or other covered entity’s rights or
        obligations under federal immigration law.


                                                     27
(h) Citizenship requirements. Citizenship requirements that are a pretext for discrimination or have the
purpose or effect of discriminating against applicants or employees on the basis of national origin or
ancestry are unlawful, unless pursuant to a permissible defense. This prohibition also applies where
such discrimination resulted, in whole or in part, from an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an
automated-decision system or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or
proxy).

(i) Human Trafficking. It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer or other covered entity to
use force, fraud, or coercion to compel the employment of, or subject to adverse treatment, applicants
or employees on the basis of national origin.

(j) Harassment. It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to harass an applicant or employee
on the basis of national origin. (See generally section 11019(b).) The use of epithets, derogatory
comments, slurs, or non-verbal conduct based on national origin, including, but not limited to, threats of
deportation, derogatory comments about immigration status, or mockery of an accent or a language or
its speakers may constitute harassment if the actions are severe or pervasive such that they alter the
conditions of the employee’s employment and create an abusive working environment. A single
unwelcome act of harassment may be sufficiently severe so as to create an unlawful hostile work
environment. (See generally section 11034(f)(2)(A).)

(k) Height and/or weight requirements. Such requirements may have the effect of creating an adverse
disparate impact on the basis of national origin. Where an adverse impact is established, such
requirements are unlawful, unless the employer can demonstrate that they are job related and justified
by business necessity. Where such a requirement is job related and justified by business necessity, it is
still unlawful if the applicant or employee can prove that the purpose of the requirement can be
achieved as effectively through less discriminatory means. This prohibition also applies where such
discrimination resulted, in whole or in part, from an employer’s or other covered entity’s use of an
automated-decision system or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or
proxy).

(l) Recruitment and job segregation. It is an unlawful employment practice for an employer or other
covered entity to seek, request, or refer applicants or employees based on national origin or to assign
positions, facilities, or geographical areas of employment based on national origin, unless pursuant to a
permissible defense.

(m) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system or
selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that discriminates
against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on the basis of national origin or
a proxy of national origin, subject to any available defense. Relevant to any such claim or available
defense is evidence, or the lack of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid
unlawful discrimination, including the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the results of
such testing or other effort, and the response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12926, 12940 and
12951, Government Code.




                                                    28
                                        Article 5. Sex Discrimination

                                    § 11032. Pre-Employment Practices.

(a) Recruitment and Advertising.

        (1) Employers or other covered entities engaged in recruiting activity (see section 11015(a)) shall
        recruit individuals of both sexes for all jobs unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

        (2) It is unlawful for any publication or other media to separate listings of job openings into male
        and female classifications.

(b) Pre-Employment Inquiries and Applications.

        (1) For all employers or other covered entities who provide, accept and consider applications, it
        shall be unlawful to refuse to provide, accept and consider applications from individuals of one
        sex unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

        (2) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to ask the sex of the applicant on an
        application form or pre-employment questionnaire, unless the question is asked pursuant to a
        permissible defense or for recordkeeping purposes. After an individual is hired, the employer or
        other covered entity may record the employee’s sex for non-discriminatory personnel purposes.

        (3) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to ask questions regarding
        childbearing, pregnancy, birth control, or familial responsibilities unless the questions are
        related to specific and relevant working conditions of the job in question.

        (4) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system
        or selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that
        discriminates against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on the
        basis of sex, subject to any available defense. Relevant to any such claim or available defense is
        evidence, or the lack of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid
        unlawful discrimination, including the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the
        results of such testing or other effort, and the response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12943 and 12945, Government Code.

                                        § 11033. Employee Selection.

(a) Tests of Physical Agility or Strength. A test of physical agility or strength shall not be used unless the
test is administered pursuant to a permissible defense. No applicant or employee shall be refused the
opportunity to demonstrate that he or she hasthey have the requisite strength or agility to perform the
job in question.

(b) Height and Weight Standards.



                                                      29
        (1) Use of height or weight standards that discriminate against one sex or the other is unlawful
        unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

        (2) Use of separate height and/or separate weight standards for males and females is unlawful
        unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

(c) Hiring Applicants of Childbearing Age. It is unlawful to refuse to hire a female applicant because she
is of childbearing age.

(d) Prior Work Experience. If an employer or other covered entity considers prior work experience in the
selection or assignment of an employee, the employer or other covered entity shall also consider prior
unpaid or volunteer work experience.

(e) Sex Stereotypes. Use of any criterion that is based exclusively or in part on a sex stereotype is
unlawful unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

(f) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system or
selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that discriminates
against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on the basis of sex or any basis
prohibited in subsections in (a) through (e) of this section, subject to any available defense. Relevant to
any such claim or available defense is evidence, or the lack of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar
proactive efforts to avoid unlawful discrimination, including the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of
such effort, the results of such testing or other effort, and the response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12940,
12943 and 12945, Government Code.

                     Article 6. Pregnancy, Childbirth or Related Medical Conditions

                   § 11038. Responsibilities of Covered Entities Other than Employers.

(a) Unless a permissible defense applies, discrimination because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy by
any covered entity other than employers constitutes discrimination because of sex under Government
Code sections 12926, 12940, 12943 and 12944.

(b) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system or
selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that discriminates
against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on the basis of pregnancy or
perceived pregnancy, subject to any available defense. Relevant to any such claim or available defense is
evidence, or the lack of evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid unlawful
discrimination, including the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the results of such
testing or other effort, and the response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12926, 12940, 12943,
12944 and 12945, Government Code.

                                  § 11039. Responsibilities of Employers.


                                                     30
(a) Employer Obligations

       (1) Except as excused by a permissible defense, it is unlawful for any employer to:

       (A) refuse to hire or employ an applicant because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (B) refuse to select an applicant or employee for a training program leading to employment or
       promotion because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (C) refuse to promote an employee because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (D) bar or to discharge an applicant or employee from employment or from a training program
       leading to employment or promotion because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (E) discriminate against an applicant or employee in terms, conditions or privileges of
       employment because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (F) harass an applicant or employee because of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy, as set forth
       in section 11036;

       (G) transfer an employee affected by pregnancy over her objections to another position, except
       as provided in section 11041(c). Nothing in this section prevents an employer from transferring
       an employee for the employer’s legitimate operational needs unrelated to the employee’s
       pregnancy or perceived pregnancy;

       (H) require an employee to take a leave of absence because of pregnancy or perceived
       pregnancy when the employee has not requested leave;

       (I) retaliate, discharge, or otherwise discriminate against an applicant or employee because she
       has opposed employment practices forbidden under the FEHA or because she has filed a
       complaint, testified, or assisted in any proceeding under the FEHA; or

       (J) use an automated-decision system or selection criteria (including a qualification standard,
       employment test, or proxy) that discriminates against an applicant or employee or a class of
       applicants or employees on the basis of pregnancy or perceived pregnancy, subject to any
       available defense; or

               (i) Relevant to any such claim or available defense is evidence, or the lack of evidence, of
               anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid unlawful discrimination, including
               the quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the results of such testing or
               other effort, and the response to the results.

       (J)(K) otherwise discriminate against an applicant or employee because of pregnancy or
       perceived pregnancy by any practice that is prohibited on the basis of sex.

       (2) Except as excused by a permissible defense, it is unlawful for any employer to:



                                                   31
        (A) refuse to provide employee benefits for pregnancy as set forth at section 11044, if the
        employer provides such benefits for other temporary disabilities;

        (B) refuse to maintain and to pay for coverage under a group health plan for an eligible
        employee who takes pregnancy disability leave, as set forth at section 11044, under the same
        terms and conditions that would have been provided if the employee had not taken leave;

        (C) refuse to provide reasonable accommodation for an employee or applicant affected by
        pregnancy as set forth at section 11040;

        (D) refuse to transfer an employee affected by pregnancy as set forth at section 11041;

        (E) refuse to grant an employee disabled by pregnancy a pregnancy disability leave, as set forth
        at section 11042; or

        (F) deny, interfere with, or restrain an employee’s rights to reasonable accommodation, to
        transfer or to take pregnancy disability leave under Government Code section 12945, including
        retaliating against the employee because she has exercised her right to reasonable
        accommodation, to transfer or to take pregnancy disability leave.

(b) Permissible defenses, as defined at section 11010, include a bona fide occupational qualification,
business necessity or where the practice is otherwise required by law.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12926, 12940 and
12945, Government Code; Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 (P.L. 95-555, 42 U.S.C. §2000e,
§701(k)), an amendment to Title VII of the federal Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. §2000e et seq.); Cal.
Federal Sav. and Loan Ass’n v. Guerra (1987) 479 U.S. 272.

                                  Article 7. Marital Status Discrimination

                                    § 11056. Pre-Employment Practices.

(a) Impermissible Inquiries. It is unlawful to ask an applicant to disclose his or hertheir marital status as
part of a pre-employment inquiry, including an inquiry made through the use of an automated-decision
system, unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

(b) Request for Names. For business reasons other than ascertaining marital status, an applicant may be
asked whether he or she hasthey have ever used another name, e.g., to enable an employer or other
covered entity to check the applicant’s past work record.

(c) Employment of Spouse. It is lawful to ask an applicant to state whether he or she hasthey have a
spouse who is presently employed by the employer, but this information may not be used as a basis for
an employment decision except as stated below.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921 and
12940, Government Code.

                                 Article 8. Religious Creed Discrimination

                                                     32
                                    § 11063. Pre-Employment Practices.

(a) Pre-employment inquiries regarding an applicant’s availability for work on weekends or evenings
shall not be used to ascertain their religious creed, nor shall such inquiry be used to evade the
requirement of reasonable accommodation. However, inquiries as to the availability for work on
weekends or evenings are permissible where reasonably related to the normal business requirements of
the job in question and in compliance with section 11016 of these regulations.

(b) It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to use an automated-decision system or
selection criteria (including a qualification standard, employment test, or proxy) that discriminates
against an applicant or employee or a class of applicants or employees on the basis of religion, subject to
any available defense. Relevant to any such claim or available defense is evidence, or the lack of
evidence, of anti-bias testing or similar proactive efforts to avoid unlawful discrimination, including the
quality, efficacy, recency, and scope of such effort, the results of such testing or other effort, and the
response to the results.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921 and
12940, Government Code.

                                         Article 9. Disability Discrimination

                                    § 11070. Pre-Employment Practices.

(a) Recruitment and Advertising.

        (1) Employers and other covered entities engaged in recruiting activities shall consider
        applicants with or without disabilities or perceived disabilities on an equal basis for all jobs,
        unless pursuant to a permissible defense.

        (2) It is unlawful to advertise or publicize, including but not limited to through the use of an
        automated-decision system, an employment benefit in any way that discourages or is designed
        to discourage applicants with disabilities from applying to a greater extent than individuals
        without disabilities.

(b) Applications and disability-related inquiries.

        (1) An employer or other covered entity must consider and accept applications from applicants
        with or without disabilities equally.

        (2) Prohibited Inquiries. It is unlawful to ask general questions on disability or questions likely to
        elicit information about a disability in an application form, automated-decision system, or pre-
        employment questionnaire or at any time before a job offer is made. Examples of prohibited
        inquiries are:

        (A) “Do you have any particular disabilities?”

        (B) “Have you ever been treated for any of the following diseases or conditions?”

                                                     33
        (C) “Are you now receiving or have you ever received workers’ compensation?”

        (D) “What prescription medications are you taking?”

        (E) “Have you ever had a job-related injury or medical condition?”

        (F) Have you ever left a job because of any physical or mental limitations?

        (G) “Have you ever been hospitalized?”

        (H) “Have you ever taken medical leave?”

        (3) Permissible Job-Related Inquiry. Except as provided in the ADA, as amended by the ADA
        Amendments Act of 2008 and the regulations adopted pursuant thereto, nothing in Government
        Code Section 12940(d), or in this subdivision, shall prohibit any employer or other covered
        entity, in connection with prospective employment, from inquiring whether the applicant can
        perform the essential functions of the job. When an applicant requests reasonable
        accommodation, or when an applicant has an obvious disability, and the employer or other
        covered entity has a reasonable belief that the applicant needs a reasonable accommodation,
        an employer or other covered entity may make limited inquiries regarding such reasonable
        accommodation.

(c) Interviews. An employer or other covered entity shall make reasonable accommodation to the needs
of applicants with disabilities in interviewing situations, e.g., providing interpreters for the hearing-
impaired, or scheduling the interview in a room accessible to wheelchairs.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12926,
12926.1 and 12940, Government Code.

                     § 11071. Medical and Psychological Examinations and Inquiries.

(a) Pre-offer. It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to conduct a medical or psychological
examination or inquiries of an applicant before an offer of employment is extended to that applicant. A
medical or psychological examination includes a procedure or test that seeks information about an
individual’s physical or mental conditions or health but does not include testing for current illegal drug
use.

(b) Post-Offer. An employer or other covered entity may condition a bona fide offer of employment on
the results of a medical or psychological examination or inquiries conducted prior to the employee’s
entrance on duty in order to determine fitness for the job in question. For a job offer to be bona fide, an
employer must have either completed all non-medical components of its application process or be able
to demonstrate that it could not reasonably have done so before issuing the offer, provided that:

        (1) All entering employees in similar positions are subjected to such an examination.




                                                    34
        (2) Where the results of such medical or psychological examination would result in
        disqualification, an applicant or employee may submit independent medical opinions for
        consideration before a final determination on disqualification is made.

        (3) The results are to be maintained on separate forms and shall be accorded confidentiality as
        medical records.

(c) Withdrawal of Offer. An employer or other covered entity may withdraw an offer of employment
based on the results of a medical or psychological examination or inquiries only if it is determined that
the applicant is unable to perform the essential duties of the job with or without reasonable
accommodation, or that the applicant with or without reasonable accommodation would endanger the
health or safety of the applicant or of others.

(d) Medical and Psychological Examinations and Disability-Related Inquiries during Employment.

        (1) An employer or other covered entity may make disability-related inquiries, including fitness
        for duty exams, and require medical examinations of employees so long as the inquiries are
        both job-related and consistent with business necessity.

        (2) Drug or Alcohol Testing. An employer or other covered entity may maintain and enforce
        rules prohibiting employees from being under the influence of alcohol or drugs in the workplace
        and may conduct alcohol or drug testing for this purpose if they have a reasonable belief that an
        employee may be under the influence of alcohol or drugs at work.

        (A) Current Drug Use. An applicant or employee who currently engages in the use of illegal drugs
        or uses medical marijuana is not protected as a qualified individual under the FEHA when the
        employer acts on the basis of such use, and questions about current illegal drug use are not
        disability-related inquiries.

        (B) Past Addiction. Questions about past addiction to illegal drugs or questions about whether
        an employee ever has participated in a rehabilitation program are disability-related because
        past drug addiction generally is a disability. Individuals who were addicted to drugs, but are not
        currently using illegal drugs are protected under the FEHA from discrimination because of their
        disability.

        (3) Other Acceptable Disability-Related Inquiries and Medical Examinations of Employees

        (A) Employee Assistance Program. An Employee Assistance Program (EAP) counselor may ask an
        employee seeking help for personal problems about any physical or mental condition(s) the
        employee may have if the counselor: (1) does not act for or on behalf of the employer; (2) is
        obligated to shield any information the employee reveals from decision makers; (3) has no
        power to affect employment decisions; and (4) discloses these provisions to the employee.

        (B) Compliance with another Federal or State Law or Regulation. An employer may make
        disability-related inquiries and require employees to submit to medical examinations that are
        mandated or necessitated by other federal and/or state laws or regulations, such as medical
        examinations required at least once every two years under federal safety regulations for
        interstate bus and truck drivers or medical requirements for airline pilots.

                                                    35
        (C) Voluntary Wellness Program. As part of a voluntary wellness program, employers may
        conduct voluntary medical examinations and activities, including taking voluntary medical
        histories, without having to show that they are job-related and consistent with business
        necessity, as long as any medical records acquired as part of the wellness program are kept
        confidential and separate from personnel records. These programs often include blood pressure
        screening, cholesterol testing, glaucoma testing, and cancer detection screening. Employees
        may be asked disability-related questions and may be given medical examinations pursuant to
        such voluntary wellness programs. A wellness program is voluntary as long as an employer
        neither requires participation nor penalizes employees who do not participate.

        (4) Maintenance of Medical Files. Employers shall keep information obtained regarding the
        medical or psychological condition or history of the employee confidential, as set forth at
        section 11069(g).

(e) As used in this article, “medical or psychological examination” (a term that is defined in section
11065 of these regulations) or a disability-related inquiry includes any such examination or inquiry
administered through the use of an automated-decision system. Such examination or inquiry may
include a test, question, puzzle, game, or other challenge that is likely to elicit information about a
disability.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12926,
12926.1 and 12940, Government Code.

                                       § 11072. Employee Selection.

(a) Prospective Need for Reasonable Accommodation. An employer or other covered entity shall not
deny an employment benefit because of the prospective need to make reasonable accommodation to
an applicant or employee with a disability.

(b) Qualification standards, tests, and other selection criteria.

        (1) In general. It is unlawful for an employer or aother covered entity to use a qualification
        standards, employment tests, proxy, or other selection criteria – including but not limited to
        those administered through the use of an automated-decision system – that screens out, tends
        to screen out, or otherwise has an adverse impact on an applicant or employee with a disability
        or a class of individuals applicants or employees with disabilities, on the basis of disability,.
        However, such standard, test, or other unless the standards, tests, or other selection criteria, as
        used by the employer or other covered entity, are shown to be is not unlawful under this
        subsection when job-related for the position in question, and are consistent with business
        necessity and there is no less discriminatory standard, test, or other selection criteria that serves
        the employer’s goals as effectively as the challenged standard, test, or other selection criteria.
        Statistical comparisons between persons with disabilities and persons who are not disabled are
        not required to show that an individual with a disability or a class of individuals with disabilities
        is screened out by selection criteria.

        (2) Qualification Standards and Tests Related to Uncorrected Vision or Uncorrected Hearing. An
        employer or other covered entity shall not use a qualification standards, employment

                                                      36
testContractor Non-discrimination regs – status , proxy, or other selection criteria – including
but not limited to those administered through the use of an automated-decision system – that
discriminates against an applicant or employee based on an applicant’s or employee’s
uncorrected vision or uncorrected hearing. However, such standard, test, or other selection
criteria, as used by the employer or other covered entity, are shown to be is not unlawful under
this subsection when job-related for the position in question and are consistent with business
necessity and there is no less discriminatory standard, test, or other selection criteria that serves
the employer’s goals as effectively as the challenged standard, test, or other selection criteria.

(3) An employer or other covered entity shall not make use of any testing criterion, including but
not limited to through the use of an automated-decision system, that discriminates against
applicants or employees with disabilities, unless:

(A) the test score or other selection criterion used is shown to be job-related for the position in
question; and

(B) an alternative job-related test or criterion that does not discriminate against applicants or
employees with disabilities is unavailable or would impose an undue hardship on the employer.

(4) Tests of physical agility or strength shall not be used as a basis for selection or retention of
employment unless the physical agility or strength measured by such test is job-related. Such
tests include but are not limited to those administered through the use of an automated-
decision system.

(5) An employer or other covered entity shall select and administer tests concerning
employment so as to ensure that, when administered to any applicant or employee, including an
applicant or employee with a disability, the test results accurately reflect the applicant’s or
employee’s job skills, aptitude, or whatever other criteria the test purports to measure rather
than reflecting the applicant’s or employee’s disability, except when those skills affected by
disability are the criteria that the tests purport to measure. Tests concerning employment
include, but are not limited to, those administered through the use of an automated-decision
system. To accomplish this end, reasonable accommodation shall be made in testing conditions.
For example:

(A) The test site must be accessible to applicants and employees with a disability.

(B) For applicants and employees who are blind or visually impaired, an employer or other
covered entity may translate written tests into Braille or provide or allow enlarged print, real
time captioning, digital format, the use of a human reader or a screen reader, the use of other
computer technology, or oral presentation of the test.

(C) For applicants or employees who are quadriplegic or have spinal cord injuries, an employer
or other covered entity may provide or allow someone to write for the applicant or employee,
or provide or allow voice recognition software or other computer technology, or allow oral
responses to written test questions.

(D) For applicants and employees who are hearing impaired, an employer or other covered
entity may provide or allow the services of an interpreter.

                                              37
        (E) For applicants and employees whose disabilities interfere with their ability to read, process
        information, communicate, an employer or other covered entity may allow additional time to
        complete the examination.

        (F) Alternate tests or individualized assessments may be necessary where test modification is
        inappropriate. Competent expert advice may be sought before attempting such modification
        since the validity of the test may be affected. The use of an automated-decision system, in the
        absence of additional process or actions, does not constitute an individualized assessment.

        (G) Where reasonable accommodation is appropriate, an employer or other covered entity may
        permit the use of readers, interpreters, or similar supportive persons or instruments.

(c) No testing for genetic information. It is unlawful for an employer or other covered entity to conduct a
medical examination to test for the presence of a genetic characteristic, or to acquire genetic
information, unless such testing or acquisition is authorized by federal law under the Genetic
Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (GINA), 42 U.S.C. § 2000ff-1(b).

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12921, 12926,
12926.1 and 12940, Government Code; GINA, 42 U.S.C. §2000ff-1(b).

                                      Article 10. Age Discrimination

                                § 11076. Establishing Age Discrimination.

(a) Employers. Discrimination on the basis of age may be established by showing that a job applicant’s or
employee’s age of 40 or older was considered in the denial of employment or an employment benefit.
There is a presumption of discrimination whenever a facially neutral practice, including but not limited
to the use of an automated-decision system, has an adverse impact on an applicant(s) or employee(s)
age 40 or older, unless the practice is job-related and consistent with business necessity as defined in
section 11010(b). In the context of layoffs or salary reduction efforts that have an adverse impact on an
employee(s) age 40 or older, an employer’s preference to retain a lower paid worker(s), alone, is
insufficient to negate the presumption. The practice may still be impermissible, even where it is job-
related and consistent with business necessity, where it is shown that an alternative practice could
accomplish the business purpose equally well with a lesser discriminatory impact.

(b) Employment Agencies, Labor Organizations, and Apprenticeship Training Programs in Which the
State Participates. Discrimination on the basis of age may be established against employment agencies,
labor organizations, and apprenticeship training programs in which the state participates upon a
showing that they have engaged in recruitment, screening, advertising, training, job referral, placement
or similar activities that discriminate against an individual(s) age 40 or older.

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12920, 12926 and
12941, Government Code.

  § 11079. Advertisements, Pre-employment Inquiries, Interviews and Applications. Pre-Employment
                                           Practices.


                                                    38
(a) Advertisements. Unless age is a bona fide occupational qualification for the position at issue,
advertisements for employment that a reasonable person would interpret as deterring or limiting
employment of people age 40 and older are unlawful. (See section 11010(a) for the definition of bona
fide occupational qualification.) Where there is no bona fide occupational qualification, examples of
prohibited advertisements include those that designate a preferred applicant age range or that include
terms such as young, college student, recent college graduate, boy, girl, or other terms that imply a
preference for employees under the age of 40.

(b) Pre-employment Inquiries. Unless age is a bona fide occupational qualification for the position at
issue, pre-employment inquiries that would result in the direct or indirect identification of persons on
the basis of age, including, but not limited to, inquiries made through the use of an automated-decision
system, are unlawful. Examples of prohibited inquiries are requests for age, date of birth, or graduation
dates, except where age is a bona fide occupational qualification. This provision applies to oral and
written inquiries and interviews. (See section 11016(b), which is applicable and incorporated by
reference herein.) Pre-employment inquiries that result in the identification of persons on the basis of
age shall not be unlawful when made for purposes of applicable reporting requirements or to maintain
applicant flow data provided that the inquiries are made in a manner consistent with Section 11013 (and
particularly subsection (b)) of Article 1.

(c) Applications. Unless age is a bona fide occupational qualification for the position at issue, it is
discrimination on the basis of age for an employer or other covered entity to reject or refuse to provide
equal consideration of the application form, pre-employment questionnaire, oral application, or the oral
or written inquiry of an individual because the individual is age 40 or older. (See section 11016(c), which
is applicable and incorporated by reference herein.)

        (1) Subsection (c) prohibits the use of online job applications that require entry of age in order
        to access or complete an application, or the use of drop-down menus that contain age-based
        cut-off dates or utilize automated selection criteria or algorithms that have the effect of
        screening out applicants age 40 and older. Use of online application technology or an
        automated-decision system that limits or screens out older applicants is discriminatory unless
        age is a bona fide occupational qualification. (See section 11010(a).)

Note: Authority cited: Section 12935(a), Government Code. Reference: Sections 12940 and 12941,
Government Code.




                                                    39
