§ 6-1-1301. Short title, CO ST § 6-1-1301




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                      C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1301

                                                     § 6-1-1301. Short title

                                                           Currentness


The short title of this part 13 is the “Colorado Privacy Act”.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1301, CO ST § 6-1-1301
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                     © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                   1
§ 6-1-1302. Legislative declaration, CO ST § 6-1-1302




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                      C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1302

                                               § 6-1-1302. Legislative declaration

                                                           Currentness


(1) The general assembly hereby:


(a) Finds that:


(I) The people of Colorado regard their privacy as a fundamental right and an essential element of their individual freedom;


(II) Colorado's constitution explicitly provides the right to privacy under section 7 of article II, and fundamental privacy rights
have long been, and continue to be, integral to protecting Coloradans and to safeguarding our democratic republic;


                                      <Text of (1)(a)(III) effective until October 1, 2025>

(III) Ongoing advances in technology have produced exponential growth in the volume and variety of personal data being
generated, collected, stored, and analyzed, and these advances present both promise and potential peril;


                                         <Text of (1)(a)(III) effective October 1, 2025>

(III) Ongoing advances in technology have produced exponential growth in the volume and variety of personal data from
individuals, including minors, being generated, collected, stored, and analyzed, and these advances present both promise and
potential peril;


(IV) The ability to harness and use data in positive ways is driving innovation and brings beneficial technologies to society,
but it has also created risks to privacy and freedom; and


                                      <Text of (1)(a)(V) effective until October 1, 2025>

(V) The unauthorized disclosure of personal information and loss of privacy can have devastating impacts ranging from financial
fraud, identity theft, and unnecessary costs in personal time and finances to destruction of property, harassment, reputational
damage, emotional distress, and physical harm;




                  © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                           1
§ 6-1-1302. Legislative declaration, CO ST § 6-1-1302




                                         <Text of (1)(a)(V) effective October 1, 2025>

(V) The unauthorized disclosure of personal information, including a minor's personal information, and loss of privacy can
have devastating impacts ranging from financial fraud, identity theft, and unnecessary costs in personal time and finances to
destruction of property, harassment, reputational damage, emotional distress, and physical harm;


(b) Determines that:


(I) Technological innovation and new uses of data can help solve societal problems and improve lives, and it is possible to build
a world where technological innovation and privacy can coexist; and


                                      <Text of (1)(b)(II) effective until October 1, 2025>

(II) States across the United States are looking to this part 13 and similar models to enact state-based data privacy requirements
and to exercise the leadership that is lacking at the national level; and


                                         <Text of (1)(b)(II) effective October 1, 2025>

(II) States across the United States are looking to this part 13 and similar models to enact state-based data privacy requirements,
including data privacy requirements specifically targeted at minors' data, and to exercise the leadership that is lacking at the
national level; and


(c) Declares that:


                                       <Text of (1)(c)(I) effective until October 1, 2025>

(I) By enacting this part 13, Colorado will be among the states that empower consumers to protect their privacy and require
companies to be responsible custodians of data as they continue to innovate;


                                          <Text of (1)(c)(I) effective October 1, 2025>

(I) By enacting this part 13, Colorado will be among the states that empower consumers, including minors, to protect their
privacy and require companies to be responsible custodians of data as they continue to innovate;


(II) This part 13 addresses issues of statewide concern and:


(A) Provides consumers the right to access, correct, and delete personal data and the right to opt out not only of the sale of
personal data but also of the collection and use of personal data;


                                           <Text of (A.5) effective October 1, 2025>




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                             2
§ 6-1-1302. Legislative declaration, CO ST § 6-1-1302


(A.5) Provides minors the right to control their personal data;


(B) Imposes an affirmative obligation upon companies to safeguard personal data; to provide clear, understandable, and
transparent information to consumers about how their personal data are used; and to strengthen compliance and accountability
by requiring data protection assessments in the collection and use of personal data; and


(C) Empowers the attorney general and district attorneys to access and evaluate a company's data protection assessments, to
impose penalties where violations occur, and to prevent future violations.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023. Amended by Laws 2024, Ch. 296 (S.B. 24-041), § 1, eff.
Oct. 1, 2025.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1302, CO ST § 6-1-1302
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 3
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                      C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1303

                                                     § 6-1-1303. Definitions

                                                           Currentness


As used in this part 13, unless the context otherwise requires:


                                          <Text of (1) effective until October 1, 2025>

(1) “Affiliate” means a legal entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another legal entity. As used
in this subsection (1), “control” means:


(a) Ownership of, control of, or power to vote twenty-five percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting
security of the entity, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons;


(b) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners of the entity or of
individuals exercising similar functions; or


(c) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the entity as
determined by the applicable prudential regulator, as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. sec. 5481 (24), if any.


                                            <Text of (1) effective October 1, 2025>

(1) “Adult” means an individual who is eighteen years of age or older.


                                           <Text of (1.5) effective October 1, 2025>


(1.5)(a) “Affiliate” means a legal entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another legal entity.


(b) As used in subsection (1.5)(a) of this section, “control” means:


(I) Ownership of, control of, or power to vote twenty-five percent or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting
security of the entity, directly or indirectly, or acting through one or more other persons;




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 1
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




(II) Control in any manner over the election of a majority of the directors, trustees, or general partners of the entity or of
individuals exercising similar functions; or


(III) The power to exercise, directly or indirectly, a controlling influence over the management or policies of the entity as
determined by the applicable prudential regulator, as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. sec. 5481(24), if any.


(2) “Authenticate” means to use reasonable means to determine that a request to exercise any of the rights in section 6-1-1306(1)
is being made by or on behalf of the consumer who is entitled to exercise the rights.


(2.2) “Biological data” means data generated by the technological processing, measurement, or analysis of an individual's
biological, genetic, biochemical, physiological, or neural properties, compositions, or activities or of an individual's body or
bodily functions, which data is used or intended to be used, singly or in combination with other personal data, for identification
purposes. “Biological data” includes neural data.


                                                 <Text of (2.4) effective July 1, 2025>


(2.4)(a) “Biometric data” means one or more biometric identifiers that are used or intended to be used, singly or in combination
with each other or with other personal data, for identification purposes.


(b) “Biometric data” does not include the following unless the biometric data is used for identification purposes:


(I) A digital or physical photograph;


(II) An audio or voice recording; or


(III) Any data generated from a digital or physical photograph or an audio or video recording.


                                                 <Text of (2.5) effective July 1, 2025>

(2.5) “Biometric identifier” means data generated by the technological processing, measurement, or analysis of a consumer's
biological, physical, or behavioral characteristics, which data can be processed for the purpose of uniquely identifying an
individual. “Biometric identifier” includes:


(a) A fingerprint;


(b) A voiceprint;


(c) A scan or record of an eye retina or iris;




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                            2
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




(d) A facial map, facial geometry, or facial template; or


(e) Other unique biological, physical, or behavioral patterns or characteristics.


(3) “Business associate” has the meaning established in 45 CFR 160.103.


(4) “Child” means an individual under thirteen years of age.


(5) “Consent” means a clear, affirmative act signifying a consumer's freely given, specific, informed, and unambiguous
agreement, such as by a written statement, including by electronic means, or other clear, affirmative action by which the
consumer signifies agreement to the processing of personal data. The following does not constitute consent:


(a) Acceptance of a general or broad terms of use or similar document that contains descriptions of personal data processing
along with other, unrelated information;


(b) Hovering over, muting, pausing, or closing a given piece of content; and


(c) Agreement obtained through dark patterns.


(6) “Consumer”:


(a) Means an individual who is a Colorado resident acting only in an individual or household context; and


(b) Does not include an individual acting in a commercial or employment context, as a job applicant, or as a beneficiary of
someone acting in an employment context.


(7) “Controller” means a person that, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes for and means of processing personal
data.


(8) “Covered entity” has the meaning established in 45 CFR 160.103.


(9) “Dark pattern” means a user interface designed or manipulated with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user
autonomy, decision-making, or choice.


(10) “Decisions that produce legal or similarly significant effects concerning a consumer” means a decision that results in the
provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, insurance, education enrollment or opportunity, criminal justice,
employment opportunities, health-care services, or access to essential goods or services.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                           3
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




(11) “De-identified data” means data that cannot reasonably be used to infer information about, or otherwise be linked to, an
identified or identifiable individual, or a device linked to such an individual, if the controller that possesses the data:


(a) Takes reasonable measures to ensure that the data cannot be associated with an individual;


(b) Publicly commits to maintain and use the data only in a de-identified fashion and not attempt to re-identify the data; and


(c) Contractually obligates any recipients of the information to comply with the requirements of this subsection (11).


(12) “Health-care facility” means any entity that is licensed, certified, or otherwise authorized or permitted by law to administer
medical treatment in this state.


(13) “Health-care information” means individually identifiable information relating to the past, present, or future health status
of an individual.


(14) “Health-care provider” means a person licensed, certified, or registered in this state to practice medicine, pharmacy,
chiropractic, nursing, physical therapy, podiatry, dentistry, optometry, occupational therapy, or other healing arts under title 12.


                                           <Text of (14.5) effective October 1, 2025>

(14.5) “Heightened risk of harm to minors” means processing the personal data of minors in a manner that presents a reasonably
foreseeable risk that could cause:


(a) Unfair or deceptive treatment of, or unlawful disparate impact on, minors;


(b) Financial, physical, or reputational injury to minors;


(c) Unauthorized disclosure of the personal data of minors as a result of a security breach, as defined in section 6-1-716(1)(h); or


(d) Physical or other intrusion upon the solitude or seclusion, or the private affairs or concerns, of minors if the intrusion would
be offensive to a reasonable person.


(15) “HIPAA” means the federal “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996”, as amended, 42 U.S.C. secs.
1320d to 1320d-9.


(16) “Identified or identifiable individual” means an individual who can be readily identified, directly or indirectly, in particular
by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, specific geolocation data, or an online identifier.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               4
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




                                           <Text of (16.5) effective October 1, 2025>

(16.5) “Minor” means any consumer who is under eighteen years of age.


(16.7) “Neural data” means information that is generated by the measurement of the activity of an individual's central or
peripheral nervous systems and that can be processed by or with the assistance of a device.


                                           <Text of (16.8) effective October 1, 2025>

(16.8) “online service, product, or feature”:


(a) Means any service, product, or feature that is provided online; and


(b) Does not include:


(I) Telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. sec. 153(53), as amended;


(II) Broadband internet access service, as defined in 47 CFR 54.400(l), as amended; or


(III) The delivery or use of a physical product.


(17) “Personal data”:


(a) Means information that is linked or reasonably linkable to an identified or identifiable individual; and


(b) Does not include de-identified data or publicly available information. As used in this subsection (17)(b), “publicly available
information” means information that is lawfully made available from federal, state, or local government records and information
that a controller has a reasonable basis to believe the consumer has lawfully made available to the general public.


                                           <Text of (17.5) effective October 1, 2025>

(17.5) “Precise geolocation data”:


(a) Means information derived from technology, including global positioning system level latitude and longitude coordinates
or other mechanisms, that directly identifies the specific location of an individual with precision and accuracy within a radius
of one thousand seven hundred fifty feet; and


(b) Does not include:




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                             5
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




(I) The content of communications regarding location; or


(II) Any data generated by or connected to advanced utility metering infrastructure systems or equipment for use by a utility.


(18) “Process” or “processing” means the collection, use, sale, storage, disclosure, analysis, deletion, or modification of personal
data and includes the actions of a controller directing a processor to process personal data.


(19) “Processor” means a person that processes personal data on behalf of a controller.


(20) “Profiling” means any form of automated processing of personal data to evaluate, analyze, or predict personal aspects
concerning an identified or identifiable individual's economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability,
behavior, location, or movements.


(21) “Protected health information” has the meaning established in 45 CFR 160.103.


(22) “Pseudonymous data” means personal data that can no longer be attributed to a specific individual without the use of
additional information if the additional information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organizational measures
to ensure that the personal data are not attributed to a specific individual.


(23)(a) “Sale”, “sell”, or “sold” means the exchange of personal data for monetary or other valuable consideration by a controller
to a third party.


(b) “Sale”, “sell”, or “sold” does not include the following:


(I) The disclosure of personal data to a processor that processes the personal data on behalf of a controller;


(II) The disclosure of personal data to a third party for purposes of providing a product or service requested by the consumer;


(III) The disclosure or transfer of personal data to an affiliate of the controller;


(IV) The disclosure or transfer to a third party of personal data as an asset that is part of a proposed or actual merger, acquisition,
bankruptcy, or other transaction in which the third party assumes control of all or part of the controller's assets; or


(V) The disclosure of personal data:


(A) That a consumer directs the controller to disclose or intentionally discloses by using the controller to interact with a third
party; or




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 6
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303




(B) Intentionally made available by a consumer to the general public via a channel of mass media.


(24) “Sensitive data” means:


(a) Personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, religious beliefs, a mental or physical health condition or diagnosis, sex life
or sexual orientation, or citizenship or citizenship status;


(b) Genetic or biometric data that may be processed for the purpose of uniquely identifying an individual;


(c) Personal data from a known child; or


(d) Biological data.


(25) “Targeted advertising”:


(a) Means displaying to a consumer an advertisement that is selected based on personal data obtained or inferred over time
from the consumer's activities across nonaffiliated websites, applications, or online services to predict consumer preferences
or interests; and


(b) Does not include:


(I) Advertising to a consumer in response to the consumer's request for information or feedback;


(II) Advertisements based on activities within a controller's own websites or online applications;


(III) Advertisements based on the context of a consumer's current search query, visit to a website, or online application; or


(IV) Processing personal data solely for measuring or reporting advertising performance, reach, or frequency.


(26) “Third party” means a person, public authority, agency, or body other than a consumer, controller, processor, or affiliate
of the processor or the controller.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023. Amended by Laws 2024, Ch. 68 (H.B. 24-1058), § 2, eff.
Aug. 7, 2024; Laws 2024, Ch. 296 (S.B. 24-041), § 2, eff. Oct. 1, 2025; Laws 2024, Ch. 313 (H.B. 24-1130), § 3, eff. July 1, 2025.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1303, CO ST § 6-1-1303




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              7
§ 6-1-1303. Definitions, CO ST § 6-1-1303


Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 8
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                         C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1304

                                                 § 6-1-1304. Applicability of part

                                                             Currentness


                                             <Text of (1) effective until July 1, 2025>

(1) Except as specified in subsection (2) of this section, this part 13 applies to a controller that:


(a) Conducts business in Colorado or produces or delivers commercial products or services that are intentionally targeted to
residents of Colorado; and


(b) Satisfies one or both of the following thresholds:


(I) Controls or processes the personal data of one hundred thousand consumers or more during a calendar year; or


(II) Derives revenue or receives a discount on the price of goods or services from the sale of personal data and processes or
controls the personal data of twenty-five thousand consumers or more.


                                    <Text of (1) effective July 1, 2025 until October 1, 2025>

(1) Except as specified in subsection (2) of this section, this part 13 applies to a controller that:


(a)(I) Conducts business in Colorado or produces or delivers commercial products or services that are intentionally targeted
to residents of Colorado; and


(II) Satisfies one or both of the following thresholds:


(A) Controls or processes the personal data of one hundred thousand consumers or more during a calendar year; or


(B) Derives revenue or receives a discount on the price of goods or services from the sale of personal data and processes or
controls the personal data of twenty-five thousand consumers or more; or




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                       1
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(b) Controls or processes any amount of biometric identifiers or biometric data regardless of the amount of biometric identifiers
or biometric data controlled or processed annually; except that a controller that meets the qualifications of this subsection (1)(b)
but does not meet the qualifications of subsection (1)(a) of this section shall comply with this part 13 only for the purposes of
a biometric identifier or biometric data that the controller collects and processes.


                                             <Text of (1) effective October 1, 2025>

(1) Except as specified in subsection (2) of this section:


(a) This part 13, other than sections 6-1-1305.5, 6-1-1308.5, and 6-1-1309.5, applies to a controller that:


(I)(A) Conducts business in Colorado or produces or delivers commercial products or services that are intentionally targeted
to residents of Colorado; and


(B) Satisfies one or both of the following thresholds: controls or processes the personal data of one hundred thousand consumers
or more during a calendar year; or derives revenue or receives a discount on the price of goods or services from the sale of
personal data and processes or controls the personal data of twenty-five thousand consumers or more; or


(II) Controls or processes any amount of biometric identifiers or biometric data regardless of the amount of biometric identifiers
or biometric data controlled or processed annually; except that a controller that meets the qualifications of this subsection (1)
(b) but does not meet the qualifications of subsection (1)(a) of this section shall comply with this part 13 only for the purposes
of a biometric identifier or biometric data that the controller collects and processes;


(b)Sections 6-1-1305.5, 6-1-1308.5, and 6-1-1309.5 to 6-1-1313 apply to a controller that conducts business in Colorado or
delivers commercial products or services that are intentionally targeted to residents of Colorado.


(2) This part 13 does not apply to:


(a) Protected health information that is collected, stored, and processed by a covered entity or its business associates;


(b) Health-care information that is governed by part 8 of article 1 of title 25 solely for the purpose of access to medical records;


(c) Patient identifying information, as defined in 42 CFR 2.11, that are governed by and collected and processed pursuant to
42 CFR 2, established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. sec. 290dd-2;


(d) Identifiable private information, as defined in 45 CFR 46.102, for purposes of the federal policy for the protection of human
subjects pursuant to 45 CFR 46; identifiable private information that is collected as part of human subjects research pursuant to
the ICH E6 Good Clinical Practice Guideline issued by the International Council for Harmonisation of Technical Requirements
for Pharmaceuticals for Human Use or the protection of human subjects under 21 CFR 50 and 56; or personal data used or
shared in research conducted in accordance with one or more of the categories set forth in this subsection (2)(d);



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              2
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(e) Information and documents created by a covered entity for purposes of complying with HIPAA and its implementing
regulations;


(f) Patient safety work product, as defined in 42 CFR 3.20, that is created for purposes of patient safety improvement pursuant
to 42 CFR 3, established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. secs. 299b-21 to 299b-26;


(g) Information that is:


(I) De-identified in accordance with the requirements for de-identification set forth in 45 CFR 164; and


(II) Derived from any of the health-care-related information described in this section;


(h) Information maintained in the same manner as information under subsections (2)(a) to (2)(g) of this section by:


(I) A covered entity or business associate;


(II) A health-care facility or health-care provider; or


(III) A program of a qualified service organization as defined in 42 CFR 2.11;


(i)(I) Except as provided in subsection (2)(i)(II) of this section, an activity involving the collection, maintenance, disclosure,
sale, communication, or use of any personal data bearing on a consumer's creditworthiness, credit standing, credit capacity,
character, general reputation, personal characteristics, or mode of living by:


(A) A consumer reporting agency as defined in 15 U.S.C. sec. 1681a(f);


(B) A furnisher of information as set forth in 15 U.S.C. sec. 1681s-2 that provides information for use in a consumer report,
as defined in 15 U.S.C. sec. 1681a(d); or


(C) A user of a consumer report as set forth in 15 U.S.C. sec. 1681b.


(II) This subsection (2)(i) applies only to the extent that the activity is regulated by the federal “Fair Credit Reporting Act”, 15
U.S.C. sec. 1681 et seq., as amended, and the personal data are not collected, maintained, disclosed, sold, communicated, or
used except as authorized by the federal “Fair Credit Reporting Act”, as amended.


(j) Personal data:


(I) Collected and maintained for purposes of article 22 of title 10;


                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              3
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(II) Collected, processed, sold, or disclosed pursuant to the federal “Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act”, 15 U.S.C. sec. 6801 et seq., as
amended, and implementing regulations, if the collection, processing, sale, or disclosure is in compliance with that law;


(III) Collected, processed, sold, or disclosed pursuant to the federal “Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994”, 18 U.S.C. sec.
2721 et seq., as amended, if the collection, processing, sale, or disclosure is regulated by that law, including implementing rules,
regulations, or exemptions;


(IV) Regulated by the federal “Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998”, 15 U.S.C. secs. 6501 to 6506, as amended,
if collected, processed, and maintained in compliance with that law; or


(V) Regulated by the federal “Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974”, 20 U.S.C. sec. 1232g et seq., as amended,
and its implementing regulations;


(k) Data maintained for employment records purposes;


(l) An air carrier as defined in and regulated under 49 U.S.C. sec. 40101 et seq., as amended, and 49 U.S.C. sec. 41713, as
amended;


(m) A national securities association registered pursuant to the federal “Securities Exchange Act of 1934”, 15 U.S.C. sec. 78o-3,
as amended, or implementing regulations;


(n) Customer data maintained by a public utility as defined in section 40-1-103(1)(a)(I) or an authority as defined in section
43-4-503(1), if the data are not collected, maintained, disclosed, sold, communicated, or used except as authorized by state
and federal law;


(o) Data maintained by a state institution of higher education, as defined in section 23-18-102(10), the state, the judicial
department of the state, or a county, city and county, or municipality if the data is collected, maintained, disclosed,
communicated, and used as authorized by state and federal law for noncommercial purposes. This subsection (2)(o) does not
effect any other exemption available under this part 13.


(p) Information used and disclosed in compliance with 45 CFR 164.512; or


(q) A financial institution or an affiliate of a financial institution as defined by and that is subject to the federal “Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act”, 15 U.S.C. sec. 6801 et seq., as amended, and implementing regulations, including Regulation P, 12 CFR 1016.


(3) The obligations imposed on controllers or processors under this part 13 do not:


(a) Restrict a controller's or processor's ability to:




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               4
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(I) Comply with federal, state, or local laws, rules, or regulations;


(II) Comply with a civil, criminal, or regulatory inquiry, investigation, subpoena, or summons by federal, state, local, or other
governmental authorities;


(III) Cooperate with law enforcement agencies concerning conduct or activity that the controller or processor reasonably and
in good faith believes may violate federal, state, or local law;


(IV) Investigate, exercise, prepare for, or defend actual or anticipated legal claims;


(V) Conduct internal research to improve, repair, or develop products, services, or technology;


(VI) Identify and repair technical errors that impair existing or intended functionality;


(VII) Perform internal operations that are reasonably aligned with the expectations of the consumer based on the consumer's
existing relationship with the controller;


(VIII) Provide a product or service specifically requested by a consumer or the parent or guardian of a child, perform a contract
to which the consumer is a party, or take steps at the request of the consumer prior to entering into a contract;


(IX) Protect the vital interests of the consumer or of another individual;


(X) Prevent, detect, protect against, or respond to security incidents, identity theft, fraud, harassment, or malicious, deceptive,
or illegal activity; preserve the integrity or security of systems; or investigate, report, or prosecute those responsible for any
such action;


(XI) Process personal data for reasons of public interest in the area of public health, but solely to the extent that the processing:


(A) Is subject to suitable and specific measures to safeguard the rights of the consumer whose personal data are processed; and


(B) Is under the responsibility of a professional subject to confidentiality obligations under federal, state, or local law; or


(XII) Assist another person with any of the activities set forth in this subsection (3);


(b) Apply where compliance by the controller or processor with this part 13 would violate an evidentiary privilege under
Colorado law;




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               5
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(c) Prevent a controller or processor from providing personal data concerning a consumer to a person covered by an evidentiary
privilege under Colorado law as part of a privileged communication;


                                        <Text of (3)(d) effective until October 1, 2025>

(d) Apply to information made available by a third party that the controller has a reasonable basis to believe is protected speech
pursuant to applicable law; and


                                           <Text of (3)(d) effective October 1, 2025>

(d) Apply to information made available by a third party that the controller has a reasonable basis to believe is protected speech
pursuant to applicable law;


                                        <Text of (3)(e) effective until October 1, 2025>

(e) Apply to the processing of personal data by an individual in the course of a purely personal or household activity.


                                           <Text of (3)(e) effective October 1, 2025>

(e) Apply to the processing of personal data by an individual in the course of a purely personal or household activity;


                                           <Text of (3)(f) effective October 1, 2025>

(f) Require a controller or processor to implement an age verification or age-gating system or otherwise affirmatively collect
the age of consumers, but a controller that chooses to conduct commercially reasonable age estimation to determine which
consumers are minors is not liable for an erroneous age estimation; and


                                           <Text of (3)(g) effective October 1, 2025>

(g) Impose any obligation on a controller or processor that adversely affects the rights of any person to freedom of speech or
freedom of the press guaranteed by the first amendment to the United States constitution.


(4) Personal data that are processed by a controller pursuant to an exception provided by this section:


(a) Shall not be processed for any purpose other than a purpose expressly listed in this section or as otherwise authorized by
this part 13; and


(b) Shall be processed solely to the extent that the processing is necessary, reasonable, and proportionate to the specific purpose
or purposes listed in this section or as otherwise authorized by this part 13.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              6
§ 6-1-1304. Applicability of part, CO ST § 6-1-1304




(5) If a controller processes personal data pursuant to an exemption in this section, the controller bears the burden of
demonstrating that the processing qualifies for the exemption and complies with the requirements in subsection (4) of this
section.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023. Amended by Laws 2024, Ch. 296 (S.B. 24-041), § 3, eff.
Oct. 1, 2025; Laws 2024, Ch. 313 (H.B. 24-1130), § 4, eff. July 1, 2025.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1304, CO ST § 6-1-1304
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 7
§ 6-1-1305. Responsibility according to role, CO ST § 6-1-1305




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1305

                                           § 6-1-1305. Responsibility according to role

                                                            Currentness


(1) Controllers and processors shall meet their respective obligations established under this part 13.


(2) Processors shall adhere to the instructions of the controller and assist the controller to meet its obligations under this part
13. Taking into account the nature of processing and the information available to the processor, the processor shall assist the
controller by:


(a) Taking appropriate technical and organizational measures, insofar as this is possible, for the fulfillment of the controller's
obligation to respond to consumer requests to exercise their rights pursuant to section 6-1-1306;


(b) Helping to meet the controller's obligations in relation to the security of processing the personal data and in relation to the
notification of a breach of the security of the system pursuant to section 6-1-716; and


(c) Providing information to the controller necessary to enable the controller to conduct and document any data protection
assessments required by section 6-1-1309. The controller and processor are each responsible for only the measures allocated
to them.


(3) Notwithstanding the instructions of the controller, a processor shall:


(a) Ensure that each person processing the personal data is subject to a duty of confidentiality with respect to the data; and


(b) Engage a subcontractor only after providing the controller with an opportunity to object and pursuant to a written contract
in accordance with subsection (5) of this section that requires the subcontractor to meet the obligations of the processor with
respect to the personal data.


(4) Taking into account the context of processing, the controller and the processor shall implement appropriate technical and
organizational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk and establish a clear allocation of the responsibilities
between them to implement the measures.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                1
§ 6-1-1305. Responsibility according to role, CO ST § 6-1-1305




(5) Processing by a processor must be governed by a contract between the controller and the processor that is binding on both
parties and that sets out:


(a) The processing instructions to which the processor is bound, including the nature and purpose of the processing;


(b) The type of personal data subject to the processing, and the duration of the processing;


(c) The requirements imposed by this subsection (5) and subsections (3) and (4) of this section; and


(d) The following requirements:


(I) At the choice of the controller, the processor shall delete or return all personal data to the controller as requested at the end
of the provision of services, unless retention of the personal data is required by law;


(II)(A) The processor shall make available to the controller all information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
obligations in this part 13; and


(B) The processor shall allow for, and contribute to, reasonable audits and inspections by the controller or the controller's
designated auditor. Alternatively, the processor may, with the controller's consent, arrange for a qualified and independent
auditor to conduct, at least annually and at the processor's expense, an audit of the processor's policies and technical and
organizational measures in support of the obligations under this part 13 using an appropriate and accepted control standard or
framework and audit procedure for the audits as applicable. The processor shall provide a report of the audit to the controller
upon request.


(6) In no event may a contract relieve a controller or a processor from the liabilities imposed on them by virtue of its role in
the processing relationship as defined by this part 13.


(7) Determining whether a person is acting as a controller or processor with respect to a specific processing of data is a fact-
based determination that depends upon the context in which personal data are to be processed. A person that is not limited in its
processing of personal data pursuant to a controller's instructions, or that fails to adhere to the instructions, is a controller and
not a processor with respect to a specific processing of data. A processor that continues to adhere to a controller's instructions
with respect to a specific processing of personal data remains a processor. If a processor begins, alone or jointly with others,
determining the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, it is a controller with respect to the processing.


(8)(a) A controller or processor that discloses personal data to another controller or processor in compliance with this part 13
does not violate this part 13 if the recipient processes the personal data in violation of this part 13, and, at the time of disclosing
the personal data, the disclosing controller or processor did not have actual knowledge that the recipient intended to commit
a violation.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 2
§ 6-1-1305. Responsibility according to role, CO ST § 6-1-1305




(b) A controller or processor receiving personal data from a controller or processor in compliance with this part 13 as specified
in subsection (8)(a) of this section does not violate this part 13 if the controller or processor from which it receives the personal
data fails to comply with applicable obligations under this part 13.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1305, CO ST § 6-1-1305
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                       © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                    3
§ 6-1-1306. Consumer personal data rights, CO ST § 6-1-1306




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                        C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1306

                                            § 6-1-1306. Consumer personal data rights

                                                             Currentness


(1) Consumers may exercise the following rights by submitting a request using the methods specified by the controller in the
privacy notice required under section 6-1-1308(1)(a). The method must take into account the ways in which consumers normally
interact with the controller, the need for secure and reliable communication relating to the request, and the ability of the controller
to authenticate the identity of the consumer making the request. Controllers shall not require a consumer to create a new account
in order to exercise consumer rights pursuant to this section but may require a consumer to use an existing account. A consumer
may submit a request at any time to a controller specifying which of the following rights the consumer wishes to exercise:


(a) Right to opt out. (I) A consumer has the right to opt out of the processing of personal data concerning the consumer for
purposes of:


(A) Targeted advertising;


(B) The sale of personal data; or


(C) Profiling in furtherance of decisions that produce legal or similarly significant effects concerning a consumer.


(II) A consumer may authorize another person, acting on the consumer's behalf, to opt out of the processing of the consumer's
personal data for one or more of the purposes specified in subsection (1)(a)(I) of this section, including through a technology
indicating the consumer's intent to opt out such as a web link indicating a preference or browser setting, browser extension, or
global device setting. A controller shall comply with an opt-out request received from a person authorized by the consumer to
act on the consumer's behalf if the controller is able to authenticate, with commercially reasonable effort, the identity of the
consumer and the authorized agent's authority to act on the consumer's behalf.


(III) A controller that processes personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal data shall provide
a clear and conspicuous method to exercise the right to opt out of the processing of personal data concerning the consumer
pursuant to subsection (1)(a)(I) of this section. The controller shall provide the opt-out method clearly and conspicuously in
any privacy notice required to be provided to consumers under this part 13, and in a clear, conspicuous, and readily accessible
location outside the privacy notice.


(IV)(A) Repealed by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2024.



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 1
§ 6-1-1306. Consumer personal data rights, CO ST § 6-1-1306




(B) Effective July 1, 2024, a controller that processes personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal
data shall allow consumers to exercise the right to opt out of the processing of personal data concerning the consumer for
purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal data pursuant to subsections (1)(a)(I)(A) and (1)(a)(I)(B) of this section
by controllers through a user-selected universal opt-out mechanism that meets the technical specifications established by the
attorney general pursuant to section 6-1-1313.


(C) Notwithstanding a consumer's decision to exercise the right to opt out of the processing of personal data through a universal
opt-out mechanism pursuant to subsection (1)(a)(IV)(B) of this section, a controller may enable the consumer to consent,
through a web page, application, or a similar method, to the processing of the consumer's personal data for purposes of targeted
advertising or the sale of personal data, and the consent takes precedence over any choice reflected through the universal opt-
out mechanism. Before obtaining a consumer's consent to process personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale
of personal data pursuant to this subsection (1)(a)(IV)(C), a controller shall provide the consumer with a clear and conspicuous
notice informing the consumer about the choices available under this section, describing the categories of personal data to
be processed and the purposes for which they will be processed, and explaining how and where the consumer may withdraw
consent. The web page, application, or other means by which a controller obtains a consumer's consent to process personal data
for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal data must also allow the consumer to revoke the consent as easily
as it is affirmatively provided.


(b) Right of access. A consumer has the right to confirm whether a controller is processing personal data concerning the
consumer and to access the consumer's personal data.


(c) Right to correction. A consumer has the right to correct inaccuracies in the consumer's personal data, taking into account
the nature of the personal data and the purposes of the processing of the consumer's personal data.


(d) Right to deletion. A consumer has the right to delete personal data concerning the consumer.


(e) Right to data portability. When exercising the right to access personal data pursuant to subsection (1)(b) of this section,
a consumer has the right to obtain the personal data in a portable and, to the extent technically feasible, readily usable format
that allows the consumer to transmit the data to another entity without hindrance. A consumer may exercise this right no more
than two times per calendar year. Nothing in this subsection (1)(e) requires a controller to provide the data to the consumer in
a manner that would disclose the controller's trade secrets.


(2) Responding to consumer requests. (a) A controller shall inform a consumer of any action taken on a request under
subsection (1) of this section without undue delay and, in any event, within forty-five days after receipt of the request. The
controller may extend the forty-five-day period by forty-five additional days where reasonably necessary, taking into account
the complexity and number of the requests. The controller shall inform the consumer of an extension within forty-five days
after receipt of the request, together with the reasons for the delay.


(b) If a controller does not take action on the request of a consumer, the controller shall inform the consumer, without undue
delay and, at the latest, within forty-five days after receipt of the request, of the reasons for not taking action and instructions
for how to appeal the decision with the controller as described in subsection (3) of this section.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              2
§ 6-1-1306. Consumer personal data rights, CO ST § 6-1-1306




(c) Upon request, a controller shall provide to the consumer the information specified in this section free of charge; except that,
for a second or subsequent request within a twelve-month period, the controller may charge an amount calculated in the manner
specified in section 24-72-205(5)(a).


(d) A controller is not required to comply with a request to exercise any of the rights under subsection (1) of this section if the
controller is unable to authenticate the request using commercially reasonable efforts, in which case the controller may request
the provision of additional information reasonably necessary to authenticate the request.


(3)(a) A controller shall establish an internal process whereby consumers may appeal a refusal to take action on a request to
exercise any of the rights under subsection (1) of this section within a reasonable period after the consumer's receipt of the
notice sent by the controller under subsection (2)(b) of this section. The appeal process must be conspicuously available and
as easy to use as the process for submitting a request under this section.


(b) Within forty-five days after receipt of an appeal, a controller shall inform the consumer of any action taken or not taken in
response to the appeal, along with a written explanation of the reasons in support of the response. The controller may extend
the forty-five-day period by sixty additional days where reasonably necessary, taking into account the complexity and number
of requests serving as the basis for the appeal. The controller shall inform the consumer of an extension within forty-five days
after receipt of the appeal, together with the reasons for the delay.


(c) The controller shall inform the consumer of the consumer's ability to contact the attorney general if the consumer has
concerns about the result of the appeal.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1306, CO ST § 6-1-1306
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                      © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                    3
§ 6-1-1307. Processing de-identified data, CO ST § 6-1-1307




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1307

                                            § 6-1-1307. Processing de-identified data

                                                            Currentness


(1) This part 13 does not require a controller or processor to do any of the following solely for purposes of complying with
this part 13:


(a) Reidentify de-identified data;


(b) Comply with an authenticated consumer request to access, correct, delete, or provide personal data in a portable format
pursuant to section 6-1-1306(1), if all of the following are true:


(I)(A) The controller is not reasonably capable of associating the request with the personal data; or


(B) It would be unreasonably burdensome for the controller to associate the request with the personal data;


(II) The controller does not use the personal data to recognize or respond to the specific consumer who is the subject of the
personal data or associate the personal data with other personal data about the same specific consumer; and


(III) The controller does not sell the personal data to any third party or otherwise voluntarily disclose the personal data to any
third party, except as otherwise authorized by the consumer; or


(c) Maintain data in identifiable form or collect, obtain, retain, or access any data or technology in order to enable the controller
to associate an authenticated consumer request with personal data.


(2) A controller that uses de-identified data shall exercise reasonable oversight to monitor compliance with any contractual
commitments to which the de-identified data are subject and shall take appropriate steps to address any breaches of contractual
commitments.


(3) The rights contained in section 6-1-1306(1)(b) to (1)(e) do not apply to pseudonymous data if the controller can demonstrate
that the information necessary to identify the consumer is kept separately and is subject to effective technical and organizational
controls that prevent the controller from accessing the information.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               1
§ 6-1-1307. Processing de-identified data, CO ST § 6-1-1307




Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1307, CO ST § 6-1-1307
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 2
§ 6-1-1308. Duties of controllers, CO ST § 6-1-1308




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1308

                                                 § 6-1-1308. Duties of controllers

                                                            Currentness


(1) Duty of transparency. (a) A controller shall provide consumers with a reasonably accessible, clear, and meaningful privacy
notice that includes:


(I) The categories of personal data collected or processed by the controller or a processor;


(II) The purposes for which the categories of personal data are processed;


(III) How and where consumers may exercise the rights pursuant to section 6-1-1306, including the controller's contact
information and how a consumer may appeal a controller's action with regard to the consumer's request;


(IV) The categories of personal data that the controller shares with third parties, if any; and


(V) The categories of third parties, if any, with whom the controller shares personal data.


(b) If a controller sells personal data to third parties or processes personal data for targeted advertising, the controller shall
clearly and conspicuously disclose the sale or processing, as well as the manner in which a consumer may exercise the right
to opt out of the sale or processing.


(c) A controller shall not:


(I) Require a consumer to create a new account in order to exercise a right; or


(II) Based solely on the exercise of a right and unrelated to feasibility or the value of a service, increase the cost of, or decrease
the availability of, the product or service.


(d) Nothing in this part 13 shall be construed to require a controller to provide a product or service that requires the personal
data of a consumer that the controller does not collect or maintain or to prohibit a controller from offering a different price,




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                1
§ 6-1-1308. Duties of controllers, CO ST § 6-1-1308


rate, level, quality, or selection of goods or services to a consumer, including offering goods or services for no fee, if the offer is
related to a consumer's voluntary participation in a bona fide loyalty, rewards, premium features, discount, or club card program.


(2) Duty of purpose specification. A controller shall specify the express purposes for which personal data are collected and
processed.


(3) Duty of data minimization. A controller's collection of personal data must be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is
reasonably necessary in relation to the specified purposes for which the data are processed.


(4) Duty to avoid secondary use. A controller shall not process personal data for purposes that are not reasonably necessary
to or compatible with the specified purposes for which the personal data are processed, unless the controller first obtains the
consumer's consent.


(5) Duty of care. A controller shall take reasonable measures to secure personal data during both storage and use from
unauthorized acquisition. The data security practices must be appropriate to the volume, scope, and nature of the personal data
processed and the nature of the business.


(6) Duty to avoid unlawful discrimination. A controller shall not process personal data in violation of state or federal laws
that prohibit unlawful discrimination against consumers.


(7) Duty regarding sensitive data. A controller shall not process a consumer's sensitive data without first obtaining the
consumer's consent or, in the case of the processing of personal data concerning a known child, without first obtaining consent
from the child's parent or lawful guardian.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1308, CO ST § 6-1-1308
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                        © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                     2
§ 6-1-1309. Data protection assessments--attorney general..., CO ST § 6-1-1309




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                       C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1309

                 § 6-1-1309. Data protection assessments--attorney general access and evaluation--definition

                                                            Currentness


(1) A controller shall not conduct processing that presents a heightened risk of harm to a consumer without conducting and
documenting a data protection assessment of each of its processing activities that involve personal data acquired on or after
July 1, 2023, that present a heightened risk of harm to a consumer.


(2) For purposes of this section, “processing that presents a heightened risk of harm to a consumer” includes the following:


(a) Processing personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or for profiling if the profiling presents a reasonably foreseeable
risk of:


(I) Unfair or deceptive treatment of, or unlawful disparate impact on, consumers;


(II) Financial or physical injury to consumers;


(III) A physical or other intrusion upon the solitude or seclusion, or the private affairs or concerns, of consumers if the intrusion
would be offensive to a reasonable person; or


(IV) Other substantial injury to consumers;


(b) Selling personal data; and


(c) Processing sensitive data.


(3) Data protection assessments must identify and weigh the benefits that may flow, directly and indirectly, from the processing
to the controller, the consumer, other stakeholders, and the public against the potential risks to the rights of the consumer
associated with the processing, as mitigated by safeguards that the controller can employ to reduce the risks. The controller shall
factor into this assessment the use of de-identified data and the reasonable expectations of consumers, as well as the context of
the processing and the relationship between the controller and the consumer whose personal data will be processed.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                               1
§ 6-1-1309. Data protection assessments--attorney general..., CO ST § 6-1-1309




(4) A controller shall make the data protection assessment available to the attorney general upon request. The attorney general
may evaluate the data protection assessment for compliance with the duties contained in section 6-1-1308 and with other laws,
including this article 1. Data protection assessments are confidential and exempt from public inspection and copying under the
“Colorado Open Records Act”, part 2 of article 72 of title 24. The disclosure of a data protection assessment pursuant to a
request from the attorney general under this subsection (4) does not constitute a waiver of any attorney-client privilege or work-
product protection that might otherwise exist with respect to the assessment and any information contained in the assessment.


(5) A single data protection assessment may address a comparable set of processing operations that include similar activities.


(6) Data protection assessment requirements apply to processing activities created or generated after July 1, 2023, and are not
retroactive.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1309, CO ST § 6-1-1309
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                     © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                   2
§ 6-1-1310. Liability, CO ST § 6-1-1310




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                        C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1310

                                                        § 6-1-1310. Liability

                                                             Currentness


(1) Notwithstanding any provision in part 1 of this article 1, this part 13 does not authorize a private right of action for a violation
of this part 13 or any other provision of law. This subsection (1) neither relieves any party from any duties or obligations
imposed, nor alters any independent rights that consumers have, under other laws, including this article 1, the state constitution,
or the United States constitution.


(2) Where more than one controller or processor, or both a controller and a processor, involved in the same processing violates
this part 13, the liability shall be allocated among the parties according to principles of comparative fault.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1310, CO ST § 6-1-1310
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                        © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                     1
§ 6-1-1311. Enforcement--penalties--repeal, CO ST § 6-1-1311




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                        C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1311

                                            § 6-1-1311. Enforcement--penalties--repeal

                                                             Currentness


(1)(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article 1, the attorney general and district attorneys have exclusive authority
to enforce this part 13 by bringing an action in the name of the state or as parens patriae on behalf of persons residing in the
state to enforce this part 13 as provided in this article 1, including seeking an injunction to enjoin a violation of this part 13.


(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article 1, nothing in this part 13 shall be construed as providing the basis for,
or being subject to, a private right of action for violations of this part 13 or any other law.


(c) For purposes only of enforcement of this part 13 by the attorney general or a district attorney, a violation of this part 13
is a deceptive trade practice.


                                         <Text of (1)(d) effective until October 1, 2025>

(d) Prior to any enforcement action pursuant to subsection (1)(a) of this section, the attorney general or district attorney must
issue a notice of violation to the controller if a cure is deemed possible. If the controller fails to cure the violation within sixty
days after receipt of the notice of violation, an action may be brought pursuant to this section. This subsection (1)(d) is repealed,
effective January 1, 2025.


                                            <Text of (1)(d) effective October 1, 2025>

(d)(I) Prior to any enforcement action pursuant to subsection (1)(a) of this section, other than an enforcement action described
in subsection (1)(d)(II) of this section, the attorney general or district attorney must issue a notice of violation to the controller
if a cure is deemed possible. If the controller fails to cure the violation within sixty days after receipt of the notice of violation,
an action may be brought pursuant to this section. This subsection (1)(d)(I) is repealed, effective January 1, 2025.


(II) Prior to any enforcement action pursuant to subsection (1)(a) of this section to enforce section 6-1-1305.5, 6-1-1308.5, or
6-1-1309.5, the attorney general or district attorney must issue a notice of violation to the controller if a cure is deemed possible.
If the controller fails to cure the violation within sixty days after receipt of the notice of violation, an action may be brought
pursuant to this section. This subsection (1)(d)(II) is repealed, effective December 31, 2026.


(2) The state treasurer shall credit all receipts from the imposition of civil penalties under this part 13 pursuant to section
24-31-108.



                © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 1
§ 6-1-1311. Enforcement--penalties--repeal, CO ST § 6-1-1311




Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023. Amended by Laws 2024, Ch. 296 (S.B. 24-041), § 5, eff.
Oct. 1, 2025.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1311, CO ST § 6-1-1311
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 2
§ 6-1-1312. Preemption--local governments, CO ST § 6-1-1312




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                    C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1312

                                         § 6-1-1312. Preemption--local governments

                                                         Currentness


This part 13 supersedes and preempts laws, ordinances, resolutions, regulations, or the equivalent adopted by any statutory or
home rule municipality, county, or city and county regarding the processing of personal data by controllers or processors.


Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1312, CO ST § 6-1-1312
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 1
§ 6-1-1313. Rules--opt-out mechanism, CO ST § 6-1-1313




  West's Colorado Revised Statutes Annotated
   Title 6. Consumer and Commercial Affairs (Refs & Annos)
      Fair Trade and Restraint of Trade
         Article 1. Colorado Consumer Protection Act (Refs & Annos)
           Part 13. Colorado Privacy Act

                                                      C.R.S.A. § 6-1-1313

                                             § 6-1-1313. Rules--opt-out mechanism

                                                           Currentness


(1) The attorney general may promulgate rules for the purpose of carrying out this part 13.


(2) By July 1, 2023, the attorney general shall adopt rules that detail the technical specifications for one or more universal opt-
out mechanisms that clearly communicate a consumer's affirmative, freely given, and unambiguous choice to opt out of the
processing of personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of personal data pursuant to section 6-1-1306(1)(a)
(I)(A) or (1)(a)(I)(B). The attorney general may update the rules that detail the technical specifications for the mechanisms from
time to time to reflect the means by which consumers interact with controllers. The rules must:


(a) Not permit the manufacturer of a platform, browser, device, or any other product offering a universal opt-out mechanism
to unfairly disadvantage another controller;


(b) Require controllers to inform consumers about the opt-out choices available under section 6-1-1306 (1)(a)(I);


(c) Not adopt a mechanism that is a default setting, but rather clearly represents the consumer's affirmative, freely given, and
unambiguous choice to opt out of the processing of personal data pursuant to section 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I)(A) or (1)(a)(I)(B);


(d) Adopt a mechanism that is consumer-friendly, clearly described, and easy to use by the average consumer;


(e) Adopt a mechanism that is as consistent as possible with any other similar mechanism required by law or regulation in the
United States; and


(f) Permit the controller to accurately authenticate the consumer as a resident of this state and determine that the mechanism
represents a legitimate request to opt out of the processing of personal data for purposes of targeted advertising or the sale of
personal data pursuant to section 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I)(A) or (1)(a)(I)(B).


(3) By January 1, 2025, the attorney general may adopt rules that govern the process of issuing opinion letters and interpretive
guidance to develop an operational framework for business that includes a good faith reliance defense of an action that may
otherwise constitute a violation of this part 13. The rules must become effective by July 1, 2025.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                              1
§ 6-1-1313. Rules--opt-out mechanism, CO ST § 6-1-1313




Credits
Added by Laws 2021, Ch. 483 (S.B. 21-190), § 1, eff. July 1, 2023.


C. R. S. A. § 6-1-1313, CO ST § 6-1-1313
Current through legislation effective March 24, 2025 of the First Regular Session, 75th General Assembly (2025). Some statute
sections may be more current. See credits for details.

End of Document                                                   © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.




               © 2025 Thomson Reuters. No claim to original U.S. Government Works.                                                 2
COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF LAW

Consumer Protection Section

Colorado Privacy Act Rules

4 CCR 904-3



PART 1           GENERAL APPLICABILITY

Rule 1.01        BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE

The rules in this Part 904-3 are developed pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-108(1), which grants the Attorney
General the authority to promulgate such rules as may be necessary to administer the provisions of the
Colorado Consumer Protection Act, and to C.R.S. § 6-1-1313, which gives the Attorney General authority
to promulgate Rules for the purpose of carrying out the Colorado Privacy Act and requires the Attorney
General to adopt Rules that detail the technical specifications for one or more Universal Opt-Out
Mechanisms that clearly communicate a Consumer’s affirmative, freely given, and unambiguous choice to
opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for purposes of Targeted Advertising or the Sale of Personal
Data pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I)(A) or (1)(a)(I)(B).

These rules are promulgated to establish implementation and operational guidelines for the Colorado
Privacy Act, and to help ensure that the Colorado Privacy Act is carried out in a way that is consistent
with the intent of the General Assembly, as reflected in the legislative declaration at C.R.S. § 6-1-1302.

Rule 1.02        SEVERABILITY

If any provision of these Colorado Privacy Act Rules, 4 CCR 904-3, is found to be invalid by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions of these rules shall remain in full force and effect.

Rule 1.03        EFFECTIVE DATE

Except for the provisions that have delayed effective dates as stated in these rules or C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1313
et seq., these rules shall become effective July 1, 2023.

Rule 1.04        EXEMPTIONS

These Colorado Privacy Act Rules, 4 CCR 904-3, are subject to the applicability requirements and
exemptions provided in C.R.S. § 6-1-1304.

PART 2           DEFINITIONS

Rule 2.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 2 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1303, and 6-1-
         1313. The purpose of these rules is to define certain undefined terms that are used throughout
         the Colorado Privacy Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1301, et seq., and these Colorado Privacy Act Rules, 4
         CCR 904-3, including but not limited to certain undefined terms that are used in the definitions set
         forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303. The terms defined by this rule and C.R.S. § 6-1-1303 are capitalized
         where they appear in the rules to let the reader know to refer back to the definitions. When a term
         is used in a conventional sense, and is not intended to be a defined term, it is not capitalized.




                                                                                                             1
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


Rule 2.02        DEFINED TERMS

The following definitions of terms, in addition to those set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303, apply to these
Colorado Privacy Act Rules, 4 CCR 904-3, promulgated pursuant to the Colorado Privacy Act, unless the
context requires otherwise:

“Authorized Agent” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(II) means a person or entity authorized by
the Consumer to act on the Consumer's behalf.

“Biometric Data” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(24)(b) means Biometric Identifiers that are used or
intended to be used, singly or in combination with each other or with other Personal Data, for
identification purposes. Unless such data is used for identification purposes, “Biometric Data” does not
include (a) a digital or physical photograph, (b) an audio or voice recording, or (c) any data generated
from a digital or physical photograph or an audio or video recording.

“Biometric Identifiers” means data generated by the technological processing, measurement, or
analysis of an individual’s biological, physical, or behavioral characteristics that can be Processed for the
purpose of uniquely identifying an individual, including but not limited to a fingerprint, a voiceprint, scans
or records of eye retinas or irises, facial mapping, facial geometry, facial templates, or other unique
biological, physical, or behavioral patterns or characteristics.

“Bona Fide Loyalty Program” as referred to in C.R.S. § 1-6-1308(1)(d) is defined as a loyalty, rewards,
premium feature, discount, or club card program established for the genuine purpose of providing Bona
Fide Loyalty Program Benefits to Consumers that voluntarily participate in that program, such that the
primary purpose of Processing Personal Data through the program is solely to provide Bona Fide Loyalty
Program Benefits to participating Consumers.

“Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit” is defined as an offer of superior price, rate, level, quality, or
selection of goods or services provided to a Consumer through a Bona Fide Loyalty Program. Such
benefits may be provided directly by a Controller or through a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner.

“Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner” is defined as a Third Party that provides Bona Fide Loyalty
Program Benefits to Consumers through a Controller’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program, either alone or in
partnership with the Controller.

“Commercial product or service” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1304(1)(a) means a product or service
bought, sold, leased, joined, provided, subscribed to, or delivered in exchange for monetary or other
valuable consideration in the course of a Controller’s business, vocation, or occupation.

“Controller” is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(7), and means a person that, alone or jointly with
others, determines the purposes for and means of Processing Personal Data.

"Data Broker” is defined as a Controller that knowingly collects and sells to Third Parties the Personal
Data of a Consumer with whom the Controller does not have a direct relationship.

"Data Right” or “Data Rights” means the Consumer Personal Data rights granted in C.R.S. § 6-1-
1306(1).

“Disability” or “Disabilities” has the same meaning as set forth in C.R.S. § 24-85-102(2.3).

“Employee" means any person, acting as a job applicant to, or performing labor or services for the
benefit of an Employer, including contingent and temporary workers and migratory laborers.




                                                                                                                 2
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


"Employer" means every person, entity, firm, partnership, association, corporation, migratory field labor
contractor or crew leader, receiver, or other officer of court, and any agent or officer thereof, of the above-
mentioned classes, employing any person.

"Employment Records" as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1304(2)(k) means the records of an Employee,
maintained by the Employer in the context of the Employer-Employee relationship having to do with
hiring, promotion, demotion, transfer, lay-off or termination, rates of pay or other terms of compensation,
as well as other information maintained because of the Employer-Employee relationship.

"Human Involved Automated Processing” means the automated processing of Personal Data where a
human (1) engages in a meaningful consideration of available data used in the Processing or any output
of the Processing and (2) has the authority to change or influence the outcome of the Processing.

“Human Reviewed Automated Processing” means the automated processing of Personal Data where a
human reviews the automated processing, but the level of human engagement does not rise to the level
required for Human Involved Automated Processing. Reviewing the output of the automated processing
with no meaningful consideration does not rise to the level of Human Involved Automated Processing.

“Information that a Controller has a reasonable basis to believe the Consumer has lawfully made
available to the general public” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(17)(b) means information that a
Consumer has intentionally made available to the general public or information that a Consumer has
made available under federal or state law, which may include but is not limited to:

        1.       Personal Data found in a telephone book, a television or radio program, or a national or
                 local news publication;

        2.       Personal Data that has been intentionally made available by the Consumer through a
                 website or online service where the Consumer has not restricted the information to a
                 specific audience;

        3.       A visual observation of an individual’s physical presence in a public place by another
                 person, not including data collected by a device in the individual’s possession; and

        4.       A disclosure that has been made to the general public as required by federal, state, or
                 local law.

“Intimate Image” means any visual depiction, photograph, film, video, recording, picture, or computer or
computer-generated image or picture, whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other
means, that depicts an identified or identifiable person’s private parts, or a person engaged in a private
act, in circumstances in which a reasonable person would reasonably expect to be afforded privacy.

“Noncommercial Purpose” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1304(2)(o) includes, but is not limited to, the
following activities when conducted by: (a) a state institution of higher education, as defined in C.R.S. §
23-18-102(10), the state, the judicial department of the state, or a county, city and county, or municipality;
or (b) a Processor acting on behalf of one or more of the foregoing:

        1.       Processing activities related to the delivery of services and benefits;

        2.       Research purposes;

        3.       Budgeting;

        4.       Improving operations or the delivery services or benefits;

        5.       Auditing operations or service or benefit delivery;




                                                                                                              3
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


        6.       Sharing Personal Data between these categories of entities for any of these purposes; or

        7.       Any other purpose related to speech that state or federal courts have recognized as
                 noncommercial speech, including political speech and journalism.

"Opt-Out Purpose” or “Opt-Out Purposes” means the categories of Personal Data Processing from
which the Consumer may opt out pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a).

"Personal Data" is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(17), and (a) means information that is linked
or reasonably linkable to an identified or identifiable individual; and (b) does not include de-identified data
or Publicly Available Information as used in (17)(b).

"Process" or "Processing" is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(18), and means the collection,
use, sale, storage, disclosure, analysis, deletion, or modification of Personal Data and includes the
actions of a Controller directing a Processor to Process Personal Data.

“Processor” is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(19), and means a person that Processes
Personal Data on behalf of a Controller.

“Profiling” is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(20), and means any form of automated processing
of personal data to evaluate, analyze, or predict personal aspects concerning an identified or identifiable
individual’s economic situation, health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behavior, location, or
movements.

“Publicly Available Information” is defined as set forth in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(17), and does not include:

        1.       Any Personal Data obtained or processed in in violation of C.R.S. §§ 18-7-107 or 18-7-
                 801;

        2.       Biometric Data;

        3.       Genetic Information; or

        4.       Nonconsensual Intimate Images known to the Controller.

“Revealing” as referred to in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(24)(a) includes Sensitive Data Inferences. For example:

        1.       While precise geolocation information at a high level may not be considered Sensitive
                 Data, precise geolocation data which is used to infer an individual visited a mosque and
                 is used to infer that individual’s religious beliefs is considered Sensitive Data under
                 C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(24)(a). Similarly, precise geolocation data which is used to infer an
                 individual visited a reproductive health clinic and is used to infer an individual’s health
                 condition or sex life is considered Sensitive Data under C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(24)(a).

        2.       While web browsing data at a high level may not be considered Sensitive Data, web
                 browsing data which, alone or in combination with other Personal Data, infers an
                 individual’s sexual orientation is considered Sensitive Data under C.R.S. § 6-1-
                 1303(24)(a).

“Sensitive Data Inference” or “Sensitive Data Inferences” means inferences made by a Controller
based on Personal Data, alone or in combination with other data, which are used to indicate an
individual’s racial or ethnic origin; religious beliefs; mental or physical health condition or diagnosis; sex
life or sexual orientation; or citizenship or citizenship status.




                                                                                                                 4
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


“Solely Automated Processing” means the automated processing of Personal Data with no human
review, oversight, involvement, or intervention.

“Universal Opt-Out Mechanism” or “Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms” means mechanisms that clearly
communicate a Consumer's affirmative, freely given, and unambiguous choice to opt out of the
Processing of Personal Data for purposes of Targeted Advertising or the Sale of Personal Data pursuant
to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306 (1)(a)(I)(A) or (1)(a)(I)(B), which meets the technical specifications set forth in 4
CCR 904-3, Rule 5.06 pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1313(2).

PART 3          CONSUMER DISCLOSURES

Rule 3.01       AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 3 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1) and 6-1-1313. The
         purpose of the rules in Part 3 is to ensure that disclosures, notifications, and other
         communications to Consumers are clear, accessible, and understandable to Consumers so that
         Consumers can understand and exercise the full scope of their rights under the Colorado Privacy
         Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1303, et seq.

Rule 3.02       REQUIREMENTS FOR DISCLOSURES, NOTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER
                COMMUNICATIONS TO CONSUMERS

A.       Disclosures, notifications, and other communications to Consumers pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3,
         Rules 4.02, 4.05(D), 5.03, 6.02, 6.05, and 7.04 must be:

         1.     Designed to be understandable and accessible to a Controller’s target audiences,
                considering the vulnerabilities or unique characteristics of the audience and paying
                particular attention to the vulnerabilities of children. For example, they shall use plain,
                straightforward language and avoid technical or legal jargon.

         2.     Reasonably accessible to Consumers with Disabilities, including through the use of digital
                accessibility tools. For notices provided online, the Controller shall follow generally
                recognized industry standards, such as the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines,
                version 2.1 of June 5, 2018, from the World Wide Web Consortium, incorporated herein
                by reference as described at 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 11.02. In other contexts, the Controller
                shall provide information on how a Consumer with a Disability may access the disclosure
                or communication or make a request in an alternative format.

         3.     Available in the languages in which the Controller in its ordinary course provides web
                pages, interfaces, contracts, disclaimers, sale announcements, and other information to
                Consumers. Disclosures and communications sent directly to Consumers must be sent in
                the language in which the Consumer ordinarily interacts with the Controller.

         4.     Available through a readily accessible interface regularly used in conjunction with the
                Controller’s product or service.

         5.     Provided in a readable format on all devices through which Consumers normally or
                regularly interact with the Controller, including on smaller screens and through mobile
                applications, if applicable.

         6.     Unless otherwise stated, communicated in a manner by which the Controller regularly
                interacts with Consumers.

         7.     Straightforward and accurate, and must not be written or presented in a way that is
                unfair, deceptive, false, or misleading.




                                                                                                              5
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


PART 4           CONSUMER PERSONAL DATA RIGHTS

Rule 4.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 4 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1306, and 6-1-
         1313. The purpose of the rules in Part 4 is to clarify the scope of Consumer Personal Data rights,
         and standards for the processes required to facilitate the exercise of those rights.

Rule 4.02        SUBMITTING REQUESTS TO EXERCISE PERSONAL DATA RIGHTS

A.       Pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1), a Controller’s privacy notice must include specific methods
         through which a Consumer may submit requests to exercise Data Rights.

B.       Any method specified by a Controller pursuant to this rule must comply with each of the following:

         1.      Consider the ways in which Consumers normally interact with the Controller:

                 a.      A Controller that interacts with Consumers exclusively online and has a direct
                         relationship with a Consumer from whom it collects Personal Data shall only be
                         required to provide an email address for submitting access, correction, deletion,
                         or data portability requests.

                 b.      A Controller that does not fall within subsection 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.02(B)(1)(a)
                         shall provide two or more designated methods for submitting a Data Rights
                         request. If a Controller maintains a website, mobile application, or other digital
                         presence, one method for submitting requests shall be through its website,
                         mobile application, or digital interface, such as through a webform;

                 c.      If a Controller interacts with Consumers in person, the Controller shall consider
                         providing an in-person method such as a printed form the Consumer can directly
                         submit or send by mail; a tablet or computer portal that allows the Consumer to
                         complete and submit an online form; or a telephone by which the Consumer can
                         call the Controller’s toll-free number.

         2.      Enable the Consumer to submit the request to the Controller at any time;

         3.      Comply with requirements for disclosures, notifications, and other communications to
                 Consumers provided in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02;

         4.      Use reasonable data security measures, consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09, when
                 exchanging information in furtherance of Data Rights requests, considering the volume,
                 scope and nature of Personal Data that may be exchanged; and

         5.      Be easy for Consumers to execute, requiring a minimal number of steps.

C.       The Data Rights request method does not have to be specific to Colorado, so long as the request
         method:

         1.      Clearly indicates which rights are available to Colorado Consumers;

         2.      Provides all Data Rights available to Colorado Consumers;

         3.      Provides Colorado Consumers a clear understanding of how to exercise their rights; and

         4.      Meets all other requirements of this part, 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.02.




                                                                                                             6
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


D.     When a Consumer submits a Data Rights request, a Controller may only collect Personal Data
       through the request process if the Personal Data is reasonably necessary to Authenticate the
       Consumer, respond to the request, or effectuate the Data Rights request.

E.     A Controller must not require a Consumer to create a new user account to exercise their Data
       Rights request, but may require a Consumer to use an existing password-protected account.

Rule 4.03      RIGHT TO OPT OUT

A.     A Controller shall comply with an opt-out request by:

       1.      Ceasing to Process the Consumer’s Personal Data for the Opt-Out Purpose(s) as soon
               as feasibly possible and without undue delay from the date the Controller receives the
               request, taking into account the size and complexity of the Controller’s businesses and
               burden of operationalizing the opt-out.

               a.      If a Controller does not know the identity of a Consumer submitting an online opt-
                       out request, such that the Controller is unable to opt the Consumer out of the
                       Processing of offline or other connected Personal Data, the Controller may
                       request the additional information necessary to do so subject to 4 CCR 904-3,
                       Rules 4.08 and 5.05.

               b.      If a Consumer submits a request to exercise more than one Data Right and a
                       Controller is able to complete the opt-out request in a more timely manner than
                       other Data Rights requests, the Controller should complete the opt-out request
                       prior to any other Data Rights request.

       2.      Maintaining a record of the opt-out request and response, in compliance with 4 CCR 904-
               3, Rule 6.11.

       3.      Using agreed upon technical, organizational or other measures or processes to instruct
               its Processors, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1305(2)(a), to stop Processing the Personal
               Data as needed to effectuate the Consumer’s opt-out request.

B.     To enable a Consumer to exercise the right to opt out of the Opt-Out Purposes provided in C.R.S.
       § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I), a Controller must provide the disclosures required by C.R.S. § 6-1-
       1308(1)(b).

       1.      A Controller that Sells Personal Data or Processes Personal Data for Targeted
               Advertising must also provide a clear and conspicuous method for Consumers to
               exercise the right to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for each or all of the Opt-
               Out Purposes, as applicable.

               a.      The clear, conspicuous method must be provided either directly or through a link,
                       in a clear, conspicuous, and readily accessible location outside the privacy
                       notice.

       2.      A Controller Processing Personal Data for Profiling in furtherance of a decision that
               results in the provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, insurance,
               education enrollment or opportunity, criminal justice, employment opportunities, health-
               care services, or access to essential goods or services, as subject to the opt-out right
               provided at C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I), shall provide a clear and conspicuous method for
               Consumers to exercise the right to opt out of Processing Personal Data for such Profiling
               at or before the time such Processing occurs.




                                                                                                          7
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       3.      Any clear and conspicuous method for Consumers to exercise the right to opt out of
               Processing for the Opt-Out Purposes, provided pursuant to this section, must comply with
               the requirements of 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.02(B). If a link is used, it must take a Consumer
               directly to the opt-out method and the link text must provide a clear understanding of its
               purpose, for example “Colorado Opt-Out Rights,” “Personal Data Use Opt-Out,” “Your
               Opt-Out Rights,” “Your Privacy Choices,” or “Your Colorado Privacy Choices.”

C.     An Authorized Agent may exercise a Consumer’s opt-out right on behalf of the Consumer, so
       long as the Controller is able to, with commercially reasonable effort, Authenticate the identity of
       the Consumer and the Authorized Agent’s authority to act on the Consumer’s behalf.

D.     A Controller may collect the Consumer’s Personal Data necessary to effectuate the Consumer’s
       opt-out right, pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.02(D).

Rule 4.04      RIGHT OF ACCESS

A.     A Controller shall comply with an access request by providing the Consumer all the specific
       pieces of Personal Data it has collected and maintains about the Consumer that are the subject
       of the request, including without limitation, any Personal Data that the Controller’s Processors
       obtained from the Controller in providing services to the Controller.

       1.      Specific pieces of Personal Data include final Profiling decisions, inferences, derivative
               data, marketing profiles, and other Personal Data created by the Controller which is
               linked or reasonably linkable to an identified or identifiable individual.

B.     Personal Data provided in response to an access request must:

       1.      Be provided in in a form that is concise, transparent and easily intelligible and in an
               appropriate, commonly used electronic format, depending on the nature of the data;

       2.      Be available in the language in which the Consumer interacts with the Controller.

       3.      Avoid incomprehensible internal codes and, if necessary, include explanations that would
               allow the average Consumer to make an informed decision of whether to exercise
               deletion, correction, or opt-out rights.

       4.      Be provided in compliance with the requirements for disclosures, notifications, and other
               communications, as described in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02, as applicable.

C.     The Controller shall implement and maintain reasonable data security measures, consistent with
       4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09, in Processing any documentation relating to a Consumer’s access
       request.

D.     A Controller shall not be required to disclose in response to an access request a Consumer’s
       government-issued identification number, financial account number, health insurance or medical
       identification number, an account password, security questions and answers, Biometric Data, or
       Biometric Identifiers. The Controller shall, however, inform the Consumer with sufficient
       particularity that it has collected that type of information. For example, a Controller shall respond
       that it collects “unique Biometric Data including a fingerprint scan” without disclosing the actual
       fingerprint scan data.

E.     If a Consumer exercises the right to access their Personal Data in a portable format pursuant to
       C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(e) and the Controller determines the manner of response would reveal the
       Controller’s trade secrets, the Controller must still honor the Consumer’s undiminished right of




                                                                                                               8
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       access in a format or manner which would not reveal trade secrets, such as in a nonportable
       format.

Rule 4.05      RIGHT TO CORRECTION

A.     Consumers have the right to correct inaccuracies in their Personal Data subject to C.R.S. § 6-1-
       1306(c).

B.     A Controller shall comply with a Consumer’s correction request by correcting the Consumer’s
       Personal Data in its existing systems, except archive or backup systems. The Controller shall
       also use agreed upon technical, organizational, or other measures or processes to instruct its
       Processors, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1305(2)(a), to make the necessary corrections in their
       respective systems.

C.     If a Controller or Processor stores any Personal Data on archived or backup systems, it may
       delay compliance with the Consumer’s correction request with respect to an archived or backup
       system until that system is restored to an active system or is next accessed or used.

D.     If a Consumer submits a request to exercise their right to correct Personal Data and the
       requested correction to that Personal Data could be made by the Consumer through the
       Consumer’s account settings, a Controller may respond to the Consumer’s request by providing
       instructions on how the Consumer may correct the Personal Data so long as:

       1.      The correction process is not unduly burdensome to the Consumer;

       2.      The instructions meet all requirements of 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02;

       3.      The Controller’s response is compliant with the timing requirements set forth in C.R.S. §
               6-1-1306(2)(a); and

       4.      The process described in the instructions enable the Consumer to make the specific
               requested correction.

E.     A Controller may require the Consumer to provide documentation if necessary to determine
       whether the Personal Data, or the Consumer’s requested correction to the Personal Data, is
       accurate.

       1.      When requesting documentation, the Controller must provide the Consumer with a
               meaningful understanding of why the documentation is necessary.

       2.      Any documentation provided by the Consumer in connection with the Consumer’s right to
               correction shall only be Processed by the Controller in considering the accuracy of the
               Consumer’s Personal Data.

       3.      The Controller shall implement and maintain reasonable data security measures,
               consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09, in Processing any documentation relating to the
               Consumer’s correction request.

       4.      If the Controller did not receive the Personal Data directly from the Consumer and has no
               documentation to support the accuracy of the Personal Data, the Consumer’s assertion
               of inaccuracy shall be sufficient to establish that the Personal Data is inaccurate.

       5.      A Controller, having exhausted the steps above may decide not to act upon a
               Consumer’s correction request if the Controller determines that the contested Personal
               Data is more likely than not accurate.




                                                                                                           9
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               a.      If a Controller denies a Consumer’s correction request based on the Controller’s
                       determination that the contested Personal Data is more likely than not accurate,
                       the Controller must describe in documentation required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
                       6.11(A), the Consumer’s requested correction to the Personal Data, any
                       documentation requested from and provided by the Consumer in support of the
                       correction request, and the reason for the Controller’s determination that the
                       Consumer’s documentation was not sufficient to support the Consumer’s
                       position.

Rule 4.06      RIGHT TO DELETION

A.     A Controller shall comply with a Consumer’s deletion request by:

       1.      Permanently and completely erasing the Personal Data from its existing systems, except
               archive or backup systems, or de-identifying the Personal Data such that it cannot
               reasonably be used to infer information about, or otherwise be linked to, an identified or
               identifiable individual, or a device linked to such an individual, in accordance with C.R.S.
               § 6-1-1303(11); and

       2.      Using agreed upon technical, organizational, or other measures, or processes to instruct
               its Processors pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1305(2)(b) to delete the Consumer’s Personal
               Data held by the Processors.

B.     Notwithstanding 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.06(A), a Controller may maintain records of a Consumer’s
       deletion request consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11 and as needed to effectuate the deletion
       request.

C.     If a Controller or Processor stores any Personal Data on archived or backup systems, it may
       delay compliance with the Consumer’s deletion request with respect to an archived or backup
       system until that system is restored to an active system or is next accessed or used.

D.     A Controller that has obtained Personal Data about a Consumer from a source other than the
       Consumer shall comply with a Consumer's deletion request with respect to that Personal Data
       pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(d) by (i) retaining a record of the deletion request and the
       minimum data necessary for the purpose of ensuring the Consumer’s Personal Data remains
       deleted from the Consumer’s records and not using such retained data for any other purpose, or
       (ii) opting the Consumer out of the Processing of such Personal Data for any purpose except for
       those exempted pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. § 6-1-1304.

E.     If a Controller complies with a deletion request by opting the Consumer out of Processing under
       4.06(D) or does not opt the Consumer out of some Processing of Personal Data because the
       Processing purpose is exempted pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. § 6-1-1304, the Controller
       shall provide the Consumer with the categories of Personal Data that were not deleted along with
       any applicable exception. The Controller shall not use the Consumer’s Personal Data retained for
       any other purpose than provided for by the applicable exception.

Rule 4.07      RIGHT TO DATA PORTABILITY

A.     To comply with a data portability request, a Controller must transfer to a Consumer the Personal
       Data it has collected and maintains about the Consumer through a secure method in a commonly
       used electronic format that, to the extent technically feasible, is readily usable and allows the
       Consumer to transmit the Personal Data to another entity without hindrance.

B.     Pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(e), a Controller is not required to provide Personal Data to a
       Consumer in a manner that would disclose the Controller’s trade secrets. When complying with a




                                                                                                         10
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       request to access Personal Data in a portable format, Controllers must provide as much data as
       possible in a portable format without disclosing the trade secret.

       1.      For example, if sharing both raw or unedited Personal Data along with related inferences
               or derived Personal Data in an Excel file would reveal a trade secret, the Controller may
               provide either set of Personal Data in an Excel file, so long as it is clear to the Consumer
               that the Controller maintains both types of Personal Data.

Rule 4.08      AUTHENTICATION

A.     Pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1), a Controller shall use a commercially reasonable method for
       authenticating the identity of every Consumer submitting any Data Right request, and the
       authority of every Authorized Agent submitting an opt-out request on behalf of a Consumer
       pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(II).

       1.      To determine if an authentication method is commercially reasonable, the Controller shall
               consider the Data Rights exercised, the type, sensitivity, value, and volume of Personal
               Data involved, the level of possible harm that improper access or use could cause to the
               Consumer submitting the Data Right request and the cost of authentication to the
               Controller. A Controller must avoid methods that place an unreasonable burden on the
               Consumer submitting a Data Right request, or Authorized Agent submitting an opt-out
               request on behalf of a Consumer.

B.     When possible, a Controller shall avoid requesting additional Personal Data to Authenticate a
       Consumer unless the Controller cannot Authenticate the Consumer using the Personal Data
       already maintained by the Controller.

C.     Personal Data obtained to Authenticate a Consumer may only be used to Authenticate the
       Consumer submitting the Data Right request, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1), or to
       Authenticate an Authorized Agent’s authority, pursuant C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(II), and must be
       deleted as soon as practical after Processing the Consumer’s request, except as required by 4
       CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11, or as otherwise required.

D.     A Controller shall implement reasonable security measures, consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
       6.09, to protect Personal Data exchanged to Authenticate a Consumer or to Authenticate an
       Authorized Agent’s authority, considering the type, value, sensitivity, and volume of information
       exchanged and the level of possible harm improper access or use could cause to the Consumer
       submitting a Data Right request.

E.     A Controller shall not require the Consumer or Authorized Agent to pay a fee for authentication.
       For example, a Controller may not require a Consumer to provide a notarized affidavit for
       authentication unless the Controller compensates the Consumer for the cost of notarization.

F.     If a Controller cannot Authenticate the Consumer submitting a Data Right request using
       commercially reasonable efforts, the Controller is not required to comply with the Consumer’s
       request. The Controller shall inform the Consumer that their identity could not be authenticated,
       provide information on how to remedy any deficiencies, and may request additional Personal
       Data if reasonably necessary to Authenticate the Consumer.

Rule 4.09      RESPONDING TO CONSUMER REQUESTS

A.     A Controller must respond to a Consumer’s Data Right request in compliance with the timing
       provisions of C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(2)(a)-(b).




                                                                                                           11
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                        4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


B.       A Controller does not have to comply with an authenticated Consumer request to access, correct,
         delete, or provide Personal Data in a portable format, to the extent that the Personal Data at
         issue meets the requirements of the exceptions in C.R.S. § 6-1-1307(1)(b) and 1307(3).

C.       If a Controller decides not to act on a Consumer’s Data Right request, the Controller’s response
         to the Consumer must include the grounds for denial, including but not limited to (1) any conflict
         with federal or state law; (2) if the Controller relied on an exception to the Colorado Privacy Act
         found at C.R.S. § 6-1-1304(2), a description of the exception; (3) the Controller’s inability to
         Authenticate the Consumer’s identity; (4) any factual basis for a Controller’s good-faith claim that
         compliance is impossible; or (5) any basis for a good-faith, documented belief that the request is
         fraudulent or abusive.

         1.      If a Controller denies a Consumer Data Right request based on inability to Authenticate,
                 the Controller must describe in documentation required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11 their
                 reasonable efforts to authenticate and why they were unable to do so.

         2.      A Controller that decides not to act on a Consumer’s request must also provide
                 instructions on how to appeal the Controller’s decision in accordance with C.R.S. § 6-1-
                 1306(3).

D.       When a Controller complies with a Consumer’s Personal Data Right request, the Controller shall
         also use agreed upon technical, organizational, or other measures or processes, to instruct its
         Processors, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1305(2)(a), to fulfill requests relating to Personal Data held
         by the Processors.

E.       Controllers must maintain all documentation as required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11 of these
         rules.

F.       If a Consumer or Authorized Agent submits a request to opt out of the Processing of a
         Consumer’s Personal Data for an Opt-Out Purpose in a manner that is not one of the Controller’s
         opt-out request methods, or submits a Data Right request that is otherwise deficient in a manner
         unrelated to the Authentication process, the Controller shall either: (1) treat the request as if it had
         been submitted in accordance with the Controller’s specified request methods, or (2) provide the
         Consumer or Authorized Agent that submitted the request with information on how to submit the
         request or remedy any deficiencies in the request.

PART 5           UNIVERSAL OPT-OUT MECHANISM

Rule 5.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in Part 5 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1306, and 6-1-1313.
         The purpose of this Part 5 is to provide technical and other specifications for Universal Opt-Out
         Mechanisms.

Rule 5.02        RIGHTS EXERCISED

A.       Consumers may exercise their right to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data concerning the
         Consumer for purposes of Targeted Advertising or the Sale of Personal Data through a user-
         selected Universal Opt-Out Mechanism that meets the technical and other specifications provided
         in this Rule 5.

B.       The purpose of a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism is to provide Consumers with a simple and easy-
         to-use method by which Consumers can automatically exercise their opt-out rights with all
         Controllers they interact with without having to make individualized requests with each Controller.




                                                                                                              12
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


C.     A Universal Opt-Out Mechanism may:

       1.      Express a Consumer’s choice to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for both the
               Processing of Personal Data for purposes of Targeted Advertising and Sale of Personal
               Data; or

       2.      Express a Consumer’s choice to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for only one
               specific purpose, either Targeted Advertising or Sale of Personal Data alone.

Rule 5.03      NOTICE AND CHOICE FOR UNIVERSAL OPT-OUT MECHANISMS

A.     If a platform, developer, or provider provides a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism, that platform,
       developer, or provider shall make clear to the Consumer, whether in its configuration or
       disclosures to the public, that the mechanism is meant to allow the Consumer to exercise the
       right to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for one specific purpose, either Targeted
       Advertising or Sale of Personal Data, or both purposes. These notices provided to the Consumer:

       1.      Shall comply with the requirements for disclosures and communications to Consumers
               provided in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02;

       2.      If applicable, shall state that the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism has been recognized by
               the Colorado Attorney General;

       3.      Shall clearly describe any limitations that may be applicable to the mechanism, for
               example:

               a.      That the mechanism will allow a consumer to exercise the opt-out right for only
                       one specific purpose, either Targeted Advertising or Sale of Personal Data; or

               b.      That the mechanism applies only to a single browser or device.

       4.      Need not be tailored only to Colorado or refer to Colorado or to any other specific
               provisions of these rules or the Colorado Privacy Act, provided the mechanism meets the
               requirements of 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 5.03(A)(1)-(3).

               a.      Example: A platform, developer, or provider discloses that its Universal Opt-Out
                       Mechanism permits consumers to exercise “any and all opt-out rights available to
                       you under state laws,” and complies with the other requirements of this Rule
                       5.03(A) but makes no mention of Colorado nor recites any section of these rules
                       or the Colorado Privacy Act. These disclosures satisfy the requirements of this
                       Rule 5.03(A).

B.     A valid Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must represent the Consumer’s affirmative, freely given,
       and unambiguous choice to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for the purposes listed at
       C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(A) and (B). Controllers are not obligated to honor Consumer rights
       requests for purposes other than those listed at C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(A) and (B) when
       transmitted through a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism.

C.     The platform, developer, or provider that provides a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism is not
       obligated to authenticate that a user is a Resident of Colorado. The platform, developer, or
       provider may provide such authentication capabilities if it chooses.

Rule 5.04      DEFAULT SETTINGS FOR UNIVERSAL OPT-OUT MECHANISMS




                                                                                                         13
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


A.     To comply with C.R.S. § 6-1-1313(2), a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism may not be the default
       setting for a tool that comes pre-installed with a device, such as a browser or operating system.

       1.      Example: An operating system manufacturer bundles a browser pre-installed with every
               device shipped with the operating system. The browser sends a Universal Opt-Out
               mechanism signal by default and never asks the Consumer to enable this setting. The
               Consumer’s decision to use this browser does not represent the Consumer’s affirmative,
               freely given, and unambiguous choice to use the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism because
               it is a default choice. This is so even if the marketing for the operating system touts its
               privacy protective features.

       2.      Example: An operating system manufacturer bundles a browser and apps pre-installed
               with every device shipped with the operating system. The first time a Consumer runs a
               browser or app, the operating system asks the Consumer specifically and clearly whether
               they want to opt out of the Sale of their Personal Data using a Universal Opt-Out
               Mechanism signal when using the browser or app. No choice is pre-selected, meaning
               the Consumer is forced to decide. The Consumer’s decision to select “yes” to enable the
               signal to opt out of the Sale of Personal Data represents the Consumer’s affirmative,
               freely given, and unambiguous choice to use the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism.

B.     Notwithstanding 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 5.04(A), a Consumer’s decision to adopt a tool that does not
       come pre-installed with a device, such as a browser or operation system, but is marketed as a
       tool that will exercise a user’s rights to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data using a
       Universal Opt-Out Mechanism, shall be considered the Consumer's affirmative, freely given, and
       unambiguous choice to use a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism. The marketing for such a tool may
       also describe functionality other than the exercise of opt out rights and it need not refer
       specifically to opt-out rights in the State of Colorado.

       1.      Example: A browser manufacturer markets its browser as a “privacy friendly” browser,
               prominently highlighting that the browser sends a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism signal
               by default. The browser does not come pre-installed with a device or operating system
               and must be installed by the Consumer. The Consumer’s decision to use this browser
               represents the Consumer’s affirmative, freely given, and unambiguous choice to use the
               Universal Opt-Out Mechanism. The Consumer need not be given an explicit choice about
               whether to use the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism in this example.

Rule 5.05      PERSONAL DATA USE LIMITATIONS

A.     A platform, developer, or provider providing a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism shall not use,
       disclose, or retain any Personal Data collected from the Consumer in connection with the
       Consumer’s utilization of the mechanism for any purpose other than sending or processing the
       opt-out preference. For example, the fact that a particular device sends a Universal Opt-Out
       Mechanism may not be used as part of a digital fingerprint to later identify that device.

B.     When processing a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism, a Controller may not require the collection of
       additional Personal Data beyond that which is strictly necessary to authenticate a Consumer is a
       resident of Colorado determine that the mechanism represents a legitimate request to opt out of
       the Processing of Personal Data as permitted by C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV), or comply with the
       authentication mandates of the law of another jurisdiction specifically regarding universal opt-out
       mechanisms or signals.

       1.      Example: The law of a state other than Colorado obligates Controllers to gather specific
               pieces of information from a user before the Controller honors the use of a Universal Opt-
               Out Mechanism by that user. This additional information may be gathered while
               processing a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism, even if is not otherwise “strictly necessary to




                                                                                                           14
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               authenticate a Consumer is a resident of Colorado or determine that the mechanism
               represents a legitimate request".

C.     Notwithstanding 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 5.05(B), a Controller may provide the Consumer with an
       option to provide additional Personal Data only if it will extend the recognition of the Consumer’s
       use of the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism across platforms, devices, or offline. For example, a
       Controller may give the Consumer the option to provide their phone number or email address so
       that the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism or signal can apply to offline Sale of Personal Data or link
       the Consumer’s opt-out choice across devices. Any information provided by the Consumer for
       this purpose shall not be used, disclosed, or retained for any purpose other than processing the
       opt-out request.

D.     The Controller shall implement and maintain reasonable data security measures, consistent with
       4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09, in Processing any Personal Data relating to the Consumer’s use of a
       Universal Opt-Out Mechanism.

Rule 5.06      TECHNICAL SPECIFICATION

A.     A Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must allow for Consumers to automatically communicate their
       opt-out choice with multiple Controllers.

       1.      The Universal Opt-Out Mechanism may communicate a Consumer’s opt-out choice by
               sending an opt-out signal. The signal must be in a format commonly used and recognized
               by Controllers. An example would be an HTTP header field or JavaScript object.

B.     The Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must allow Consumers to clearly communicate one or more
       opt-out rights available under C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV).

       1.      The Universal Opt-Out Mechanism may allow for a Consumer to opt out of Processing for
               one or more of the Opt-Out Purposes.

C.     The Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must store, Process, and transmit any Consumer Personal
       Data using reasonable data security measures, consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09.

D.     A Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must not prevent the Controller’s ability to determine:

       1.      Whether a Consumer is a Resident of the State of Colorado; or

       2.      That the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism represents a legitimate request to opt out of the
               Processing of Personal Data.

E.     A Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must not unfairly disadvantage any Controller. For example, a
       Universal Opt-Out Mechanism may not engage in self-dealing benefiting the creator of the
       Universal Opt-Out Mechanism over other Controllers.

Rule 5.07      SYSTEM FOR RECOGNIZING UNIVERSAL OPT-OUT MECHANISMS

A.     The Colorado Department of Law shall maintain a public list of Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms
       that have been recognized to meet the standards of this subsection. The initial list shall be
       released no later than January 1, 2024 and shall be updated periodically.

B.     The goal of the public list is to simplify the options facing Controllers, Consumers, and other
       actors.

C.     To be recognized, a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism must at a minimum meet these standards:




                                                                                                         15
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       1.      Comply with all of the technical and other specifications of Rule 5; and

       2.      Not create Consumer or Controller confusion about the similarities and differences
               between Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms on the public list.

D.     The Colorado Department of Law may consider additional factors when determining which
       Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms to recognize. These include but are not limited to:

       1.      Commercial adoption by Consumers or Controllers;

       2.      Ease and cost of use, implementation, and detection by Consumers and Controllers;

       3.      Whether the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism has been approved by a widely recognized,
               legitimate standards body after broad multistakeholder participation in the standards-
               making process; and

       4.      Whether the Universal Opt-Out Mechanism is based on an open system or standard, and
               whether such standard is free for adoption by device, operating system, browser, and
               other manufacturers, Controllers, or Consumers without permission or on fair,
               reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms.

E.     The public list shall describe recognized Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms in enough technical
       detail to permit Controllers to identify them when used by Consumers.

F.     The Colorado Department of Law will allow Controllers six (6) months to recognize a Universal
       Opt-Out Mechanism once that Mechanism is added to the public list.

Rule 5.08      OBLIGATIONS ON CONTROLLERS

A.     Effective July 1, 2024,

       1.      A Controller that receives an opt-out request through a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism
               shall treat such as a valid request to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for
               purposes of Targeted Advertising, Sale of Personal Data, or both purposes, as indicated
               by the mechanism, for the associated browser or device, and, if known, for the
               Consumer.

       2.      After receiving a valid opt-out request through the use of a Universal Opt-Out
               Mechanism, a Controller shall continue to treat the browser, device, and Consumer as
               having exercised opt-out rights until the Consumer Consents to the Sale of Personal Data
               or Processing of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising, as specified in 4 CCR 904-3,
               Rule 5.09.

       3.      A Controller shall be capable of recognizing any Universal Opt-Out Mechanism reflected
               in the public list maintained by the Colorado Department of Law pursuant to subsection 4
               CCR 904-3, Rule 5.07 provided the Controller has had at least six months’ notice of the
               addition of new mechanisms. For example, in the case of a recognized Universal Opt-Out
               Mechanism sent as a signal, the Controller must listen for the signal.

B.     A Controller may also recognize Universal Opt-Out Mechanisms that are not reflected in the
       public list maintained by the Colorado Department of Law pursuant to subsection 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rule 5.07.




                                                                                                       16
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


C.       Notwithstanding 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 5.08(A), a Controller may choose to honor an opt-out request
         received through a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism prior to July 1, 2024, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-
         1306(a)(IV)(A).

D.       Unless a Controller is Authenticating a Consumer as permitted by C.R.S. § 6-1-1313(2)(f), a
         Controller may not require a Consumer to login or otherwise Authenticate themself as a condition
         of recognizing the Consumer’s use of a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism. A Controller may not
         subject a Consumer to undertake any authentication actions that are unnecessary or
         unnecessarily burdensome.

E.       A Controller may display in a conspicuous manner if it has Processed the Consumer’s opt-out
         preference signal. For example, the Controller may display on its website “Opt-Out Preference
         Signal Honored” when a browser, device, or Consumer utilizing a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism
         visits the website.

F.       Pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1313(2)(f), a Controller may authenticate that the user sending an opt-
         out request through a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism is a Resident of Colorado, but they are not
         obligated to do so.

Rule 5.09        CONSENT AFTER UNIVERSAL OPT-OUT

A.       A Controller may enable a Consumer to Consent to Processing that the Consumer has opted-out
         of using a Universal Opt-Out mechanism, so long as the Controller’s request for Consent
         complies with the Consent requirements provided in C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), and 4 CCR
         904-3, Rule 7.05.

B.       A Controller shall not interpret the absence of a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism signal after the
         Consumer previously utilized a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism as Consent to opt back in.

PART 6           DUTIES OF CONTROLLERS

Rule 6.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 6 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1308, and 6-1-
         1313. The purpose of the rules in this Part 6 is to provide clarity on the duties of Controllers
         concerning the Personal Data of Colorado Consumers.

Rule 6.02        PRIVACY NOTICE PRINCIPLES

A.       A privacy notice shall provide Consumers with a meaningful understanding and accurate
         expectations of how their Personal Data will be Processed. It shall also inform Consumers about
         their rights under the Colorado Privacy Act and provide any information necessary for Consumers
         to exercise those rights.

B.       A Controller is not required to provide a separate Colorado-specific privacy notice or section of a
         privacy notice as long as the Controller’s privacy notice meets all requirements of this section and
         makes clear that Colorado Consumers are entitled to the rights provided by C.R.S. § 6-1-1306.

C.       A privacy notice shall comply with all requirements for disclosures and communications to
         Consumers provided in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02.

D.       A privacy notice must be clear. Information contained in a privacy notice shall be:

         1.      Concrete and definitive, avoiding abstract or ambivalent terms that may lead to varying
                 interpretations.




                                                                                                            17
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       2.      Clearly labeled, such that Consumers seeking to understand a Controller’s Processing
               activities or how to exercise their Data Rights can easily access the section of the privacy
               notice containing relevant information.

E.     A privacy notice must be easily accessible. A privacy notice must be:

       1.      Posted online through a conspicuous link using the word “privacy” on the Controller’s
               website homepage or on a mobile application’s app store page or download page. A
               Controller that maintains an application on a mobile or other device shall also include a
               link to the privacy notice in the application’s settings menu.

               a.      A Controller that does not operate a website shall make the privacy notice
                       conspicuously available to Consumers through a medium regularly used by the
                       Controller to interact with Consumers. For instance, if a Controller interacts with a
                       Consumer offline, an offline version of the privacy notice must be available to the
                       Consumer.

F.     A privacy notice must be specific. The level of specificity in a privacy notice should enable a
       Consumer to understand, in advance or at the time of the Processing, the scope of the
       Controller’s Processing operations, such that a Consumer should not be taken by surprise at a
       later point about Personal Data that has been collected and the ways in which Personal Data has
       been Processed.

Rule 6.03      PRIVACY NOTICE CONTENT

A.     A privacy notice must include the following information:

       1.      A comprehensive description of the Controller’s online and offline Personal Data
               Processing practices, including but not limited to the following, linked in a way that gives
               Consumers a meaningful understanding of how each category of their Personal Data will
               be used when they provide that Personal Data to the Controller for a specified purpose:

               a.      The categories of Personal Data Processed, including, but not limited to, whether
                       Personal Data of a Child or other Sensitive Data is Processed.

                       i.      Categories shall be described in a level of detail that provides
                               Consumers a meaningful understanding of the type of Personal Data
                               Processed. For example, categories of Personal Data described at a
                               sufficiently granular level of detail include, but are not limited to: "contact
                               information,” “government issued identification numbers,” “payment
                               information”, “Information from Cookies,” “data revealing religious
                               affiliation,” and “medical data.”

               b.      The Processing purpose described in a level of detail that gives Consumers a
                       meaningful understanding of how each category of their Personal Data is used
                       when provided for that Processing purpose.

               c.      Whether the Personal Data provided for a specific purpose will be sold or used
                       for Targeted Advertising or Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce
                       Legal or Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer.

               d.      Categories of Personal Data that the Controller Sells to or shares with Third
                       Parties, if any.




                                                                                                            18
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               e.      Categories of Third Parties to whom the Controller sells, or with whom the
                       Controller shares Personal Data, if any. Categories of Third Parties must be
                       described in a level of detail that gives Consumers a meaningful understanding
                       of the type of, business model of, or processing conducted by the Third Party.

                       i.       For example, categories of Third Parties described in a sufficiently
                                granular level of detail include, but are not limited to: “analytics
                                companies,” “data brokers,” “third-party advertisers,” “payment
                                processors,” “lenders,” “other merchants,” and “government agencies.”

       2.      If a Controller’s Processing activity involves the Processing of Personal Data for the
               purpose of Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Similarly Significant
               Effects Concerning a Consumer, all disclosures required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.03.

       3.      A list of the Data Rights available.

       4.      A description of the methods through which a Consumer may submit requests to exercise
               Data Rights, as required by C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1) and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.02, including:

               a.      Instructions on how to use each method.

               b.      Instructions on how an Authorized Agent may submit a request to opt out of the
                       Processing of Consumer Personal Data on a Consumer’s behalf pursuant to
                       C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(II).

               c.      A clear and conspicuous method to exercise the right to opt out of the Processing
                       of Personal Data concerning the Consumer pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-
                       1306(1)(a)(I) and (1)(a)(III), or links to any online method, such as a webform or
                       portal, consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.03.

               d.      A description of the commercially reasonable process the Controller uses to
                       Authenticate the identity of a Consumer exercising a Data Right request or to
                       Authenticate the authority of an Authorized Agent exercising the right to opt out
                       on a Consumer’s behalf.

               e.      Effective July 1, 2024, an explanation of how requests to opt out using Universal
                       Opt-Out Mechanisms will be processed.

       5.      If a Controller will delete Sensitive Data Inferences within twenty-four (24) hours pursuant
               to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.10, a description of the Sensitive Data Inferences subject to this
               provision and the retention and deletion timeline for such Sensitive Data Inferences.

       6.      A Controller’s contact information.

       7.      Instructions on how a Consumer may appeal a Controller’s action in response to the
               Consumer’s request, as contemplated by C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(3).

       8.      The date the privacy notice was last updated.

Rule 6.04      CHANGES TO A PRIVACY NOTICE

A.     A Controller shall notify Consumers of material changes to a privacy notice. Such changes to a
       privacy notice shall be communicated to Consumers in a manner by which the Controller
       regularly interacts with Consumers.




                                                                                                        19
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                 4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       1.      Material changes may include, but are not limited to, changes to: (1) categories of
               Personal Data Processed; (2) Processing purposes; (3) a Controller’s identity; (4) the act
               of sharing of Personal Data with Third Parties; (5) categories of Third Parties Personal
               Data is shared with; or (6) methods by which Consumers can exercise their Data Rights
               request.

B.     If a material change rises to the level of a secondary use, a Controller must obtain Consent from
       a Consumer pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 7.02-7.05 in order to Process Personal Data that
       was collected before the change to the privacy notice for that Secondary Use.

Rule 6.05      LOYALTY PROGRAMS

A.     Pursuant to 6-1-1308(1)(d), a Controller is not prohibited from offering Bona Fide Loyalty Program
       Benefits to a Consumer based on the Consumer’s voluntary participation in a Bona Fide Loyalty
       Program.

B.     If a Consumer exercises their right to delete Personal Data such that it is impossible for the
       Controller to provide a certain Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit to the Consumer, the Controller
       is no longer obligated to provide that Bona Fide Loyalty Benefit to the Consumer. However, the
       Controller shall provide any available Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit for which the deleted
       Personal Data is not necessary.

C.     If a Consumer exercises their right to opt out of the Sale of Personal Data or Processing of
       Personal Data for Targeted Advertising, such that the exchange of Personal Data needed to
       obtain a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit through a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner is no
       longer possible, the Controller is no longer obligated to provide that Bona Fide Loyalty Program
       Benefit to the Consumer.

       1.      If the Controller’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program offers Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefits
               that are unrelated to the exchange of Personal Data with a Bona Fide Loyalty Program
               Partner, the Controller shall continue to provide those Benefits to a Consumer who opts
               out of the Sale of Personal data or Processing of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising.

       2.      The sale of Personal Data or Processing of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising that is
               unrelated to sharing of information with a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner is a
               Secondary Use that requires Consent pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.08.

D.     If a Consumer refuses to Consent to the Processing of Sensitive Data necessary for a
       personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit, the Controller is no longer obligated to provide
       that personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit. However, the Controller shall provide any
       available, non-personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit for which the Sensitive Data is
       not necessary. A Controller may not condition a Consumer’s participation in a Bona Fide Loyalty
       Program on the Consumer’s Consent to Process Sensitive Data unless the Sensitive Data is
       required for all Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefits.

E.     If a Consumer’s decision to exercise a Data Right impacts the Consumer’s membership in a Bona
       Fide Loyalty Program, the Controller shall notify the Consumer of the impact of the Consumer’s
       decision in conformance with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02 and at least twenty-four (24) hours before
       discontinuing the Consumer’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit or membership, and must
       provide a reference or link to the information required by subparagraph F, below.

F.     Loyalty Program Disclosures

       1.      In addition to all other disclosures required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 6.03 and 7.03, a
               Controller maintaining a Bona Fide Loyalty Program must provide the following




                                                                                                       20
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                       4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               disclosures at the point of program registration, either directly, or in the form of a link to
               the specific section of a privacy notice or terms and conditions containing such
               information:

               a.      The categories of Personal Data or Sensitive Data collected through the Bona
                       Fide Loyalty Program that will be Sold or Processed for Targeted Advertising, if
                       any;

               b.      Categories of Third Parties that will receive the Consumer’s Personal Data and
                       Sensitive Data, provided in the level the detail described in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
                       6.03(a)(1)(e), including whether Personal Data will be provided to Data Brokers;

               c.      A list of any Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partners, and the Bona Fide Loyalty
                       Program Benefits provided by each Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner.

               d.      If a Controller claims that a Consumer’s decision to delete Personal Data makes
                       it impossible to provide a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit, then the Controller
                       shall provide an explanation of why the deletion of Personal Data makes it
                       impossible to provide a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit.

               e.      If a Controller claims that a Consumer’s Sensitive Data is required for a Bona
                       Fide Loyalty Program Benefit, then the Controller shall provide an explanation of
                       why the Sensitive Data is required for a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefit.

       2.      Bona Fide Loyalty Program terms and requests for Consent to Process Sensitive Data or
               Personal Data in connection with the Bona Fide Loyalty Program shall also include a link
               to the Controller’s privacy notice.

G.     Example: A Consumer joins a grocery store’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program that includes both
       personalized and non-personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefits. The grocery store asks
       the Consumer for Consent to collect Sensitive Data about the Consumer in order to provide
       personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefits. When the Consumer refuses Consent, the
       Controller gives timely notice to the Consumer that it will not provide the personalized Bona Fide
       Loyalty Program Benefits, but will continue to provide non-personalized Bona Fide Loyalty
       Program Benefits. Moving forward, the Controller provides only the non-personalized Bona Fide
       Loyalty Program Benefits following the Consumer’s decision to continue to refuse Consent to the
       collection of Sensitive Data. The Controller is not acting impermissibly because the grocery store
       is still providing all available non-personalized Bona Fide Loyalty Program Benefits and did not
       condition the Consumer’s participation in the Bona Fide Loyalty Program on the Consumers
       Consent to process Sensitive Data that is not required for personalized Bona Fide Loyalty
       Program Benefits.

H.     Example: A Consumer joins a hotel chain’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program, which provides points
       that can be applied to obtain discounts for that hotel chain, and for a popular restaurant chain that
       is not otherwise affiliated with the hotel chain. The restaurant chain requires the hotel chain to
       provide the Personal Data of each Consumer who wishes to apply the hotel chain’s points to
       obtain restaurant discounts. When the Consumer opts out of the Sale of Personal Data and
       Processing of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising, the Controller is unable to provide the
       required information to the restaurant chain. The Controller may discontinue the Bona Fide
       Loyalty Program Benefit that allows Consumers to use points for discounts for the restaurant
       chain. However, the hotel chain must still provide all available Bona Fide Loyalty Benefits to be
       used at the hotel chain.

I.     Example: A Consumer joins a retailer’s Bona Fide Loyalty Program that offers discounts on
       products based on the Consumer’s purchase history. The retailer wishes to fund the loyalty




                                                                                                                21
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       program, in part, by selling the Consumer’s purchase history to a Data Broker. The retailer must
       obtain the Consumer’s consent to Sell the Consumer’s Personal Data to the Data Broker because
       selling Personal Data obtained through a Bona Fide Loyalty Program to a Data Broker is a
       secondary use.

J.     Example: A Consumer exercises their right to opt out of the Processing of Personal Data for
       Targeted Advertising. An online gaming company gives the Consumer fewer free games through
       the company’s service, arguing that the additional free games are for members of its loyalty
       program, which requires the use of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising. The company’s
       differential treatment is prohibited if the Processing of Personal Data is not necessary to provide
       the additional games. However, if the free games are provided by a Bona Fide Loyalty Program
       Partner that requires the Consumer data for Targeted Advertising through a co-marketing
       agreement with the Controller, the differential treatment may be appropriate.

Rule 6.06      PURPOSE SPECIFICATION

A.     Controllers shall specify the express purposes for which each category of Personal Data is
       collected and Processed in both external disclosures to Consumers, including privacy notices
       required by C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(1), as well as in any internal documentation required by this Part 6.

B.     The express purpose must be described in a level of detail that gives Consumers a meaningful
       understanding of how each category of their Personal Data is used when provided for that
       Processing purpose.

C.     If Personal Data is collected and Processed for more than one purpose, Controllers should
       specify each unrelated purpose with enough detail to allow Consumers to understand each
       individual, unrelated purpose.

       1.      Controllers should not identify one broad purpose to justify numerous Processing
               activities that are only remotely related.

       2.      Controllers should not specify one broad purpose to cover potential future Processing
               activities that are only remotely related.

       3.      Controllers should not specify so many purposes for which Personal Data could
               potentially be processed to cover potential future processing activities that the purpose
               becomes unclear or uninformative.

D.     If the Processing purpose has evolved beyond the original express purpose such that it becomes
       a distinct purpose that is no longer reasonably necessary to or compatible with the original
       express purpose, the Controller must review and update all related disclosures and
       documentation as necessary.

Rule 6.07      DATA MINIMIZATION

A.     To ensure all Personal Data collected is reasonably necessary for the specified purpose,
       Controllers shall carefully consider each Processing purpose and determine the minimum
       Personal Data that is necessary, adequate, or relevant for the express purpose or purposes.

B.     Personal Data should only be kept in a form which allows identification of Consumers for as long
       as is necessary for the express Processing purpose(s). To ensure that the Personal Data are not
       kept longer than necessary, adequate, or relevant, Controllers shall set specific time limits for
       erasure or to conduct a periodic review.




                                                                                                           22
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       1.      Any Personal Data determined to no longer be necessary, adequate, or relevant to the
               express Processing purpose(s) shall be deleted by the Controller and any Processors
               that the Controller has shared the Personal Data with.

       2.      Biometric Identifiers, a digital or physical photograph of a person, an audio or voice
               recording containing the voice of a person, or any Personal Data generated from a digital
               or physical photograph or an audio or video recording held by a Controller shall be
               reviewed at least once a year to determine if its storage is still necessary, adequate, or
               relevant to the express Processing purpose. Such assessment shall be documented
               according to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11.

       3.      Sensitive Data for which Controllers no longer have consent to Process, should be
               deleted or otherwise rendered permanently anonymized or inaccessible within a
               reasonable period of time after withdrawal of Consent.

C.     A Controller shall not collect Personal Data other than those disclosed in its required privacy
       notice. If the Controller intends to collect additional Personal Data the Controller shall revise its
       privacy notice, and notify Consumers of the change to its privacy notice pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rule 6.04.

Rule 6.08      SECONDARY USE

A.     The specified Processing purpose is the purpose disclosed to Consumers at or before the time
       the Personal Data is collected or processed from Consumers. Such disclosure shall be included
       in any required privacy notice or Consent disclosure.

B.     Before Processing Personal Data for purposes that are not reasonably necessary to or
       compatible with specified Processing purpose(s) disclosed on or after July 1, 2023, the Controller
       must obtain Consent consistent with C.R.S. § 6-1-1308 and 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 7.02-7.05.

C.     When considering if the new Processing purpose is reasonably necessary to or compatible with
       the original specified purpose(s), Controllers may consider the following, as applicable:

       1.      The reasonable expectation of an average Consumer concerning how their Personal
               Data would be Processed once it was collected;

       2.      The link between the original specified purpose(s) for which the data was collected and
               the purpose(s) of further Processing;

       3.      The relationship between the Consumer and the Controller and the context in which the
               Personal Data was collected;

       4.      The type, nature, and amount of the Personal Data subject to the new Processing
               purpose;

       5.      The type and degree of possible consequence or impact to the Consumer of the new
               Processing purpose;

       6.      The identity of the entity conducting the new Processing purposes, e.g., the same or
               different Controller, or a Third Party; and

       7.      The existence of additional safeguards for the Personal Data, such as encryption or
               pseudonymization.

Rule 6.09      DUTY OF CARE




                                                                                                         23
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


A.     Personal Data must be Processed in a manner that ensures reasonable and appropriate
       administrative, technical, organizational, and physical safeguards of Personal Data collected,
       stored, and Processed.

B.     When determining reasonable and appropriate safeguards, Controllers should consider:

       1.      Applicable industry standards and frameworks;

       2.      The nature, size, and complexity of the Controller’s organization;

       3.      The sensitivity and amount of Personal Data;

       4.      The original source of Personal Data;

       5.      The risk of harm to Consumers resulting from unauthorized or unlawful access, use, or
               degradation of the Personal Data; and

       6.      The burden or cost of safeguards to protect Personal Data from harm assessed in 4 CCR
               904-3, Rule 6.09(B)(5).

C.     Reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical, organizational, and physical safeguards
       must be designed to:

       1.      Protect against unauthorized or unlawful access to or use of Personal Data and the
               equipment used for the Processing and against accidental loss, destruction, or damage;

       2.      Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of Personal Data collected, stored,
               and Processed;

       3.      Identify and protect against reasonably anticipated threats to security or the integrity of
               information; and

       4.      Oversee compliance with data security policies by the Controller and Processors through
               reasonable requirements.

D.     Reasonable and appropriate administrative, technical, organizational, and physical safeguards to
       secure Personal Data include but are not limited to those measures provided by C.R.S. § 6-1-
       713.5 and C.R.S. § 24-73-102, as interpreted by state courts and administrative orders.

Rule 6.10      DUTY REGARDING SENSITIVE DATA

A.     Controllers must obtain Consent to Process Sensitive Data, including Sensitive Data Inferences,
       consistent with C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(7) and 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 7.02-7.05.

B.     Controllers may be exempt from obtaining Consent to Process Sensitive Data Inferences from
       Consumers over the age of thirteen (13) only if:

       1.      The Processing purpose of such Personal Data would be obvious to a reasonable
               Consumer based on the context of the collection and use of the Personal Data, and the
               relationship between the Controller and Consumer;

       2.      Sensitive Data Inferences are permanently deleted within twenty-four (24) hours of
               collection or of the completion of the Processing activity, whichever comes first;




                                                                                                             24
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       3.      Sensitive Data Inferences are not transferred, sold, or shared with any Processors,
               Affiliates, or Third-Parties; and

       4.      The Personal Data and any Sensitive Data Inferences are not Processed for any purpose
               other than the express purpose disclosed to the Consumer.

C.     If a Controller will delete Sensitive Data Inferences within twenty-four (24) hours, pursuant to this
       section, they must (1) include description of the Sensitive Data Inferences subject to this
       provision and the retention and deletion timeline for such Sensitive Data Inferences in its privacy
       notice, pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.03, and (2) include the details of the deletion and
       verification process in the Controller’s Data Protection Assessment, pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rule 8.04.

Rule 6.11      DOCUMENTATION CONCERNING DUTIES OF CONTROLLERS

A.     Controllers shall maintain records of all Consumer Data Rights requests made pursuant to C.R.S.
       § 6-1-1306 for at least twenty-four (24) months. Such records shall include, at a minimum, each
       of the following:

       1.      The date of request;

       2.      The Consumer Data Rights request type;

       3.      The date of the Controller’s response;

       4.      The nature of the Controller’s response;

       5.      The basis for the denial of the request if the request is denied in whole or in part; and

       6.      The existence and resolution of any Consumer appeal to a denied request.

B.     Controllers shall maintain a record of all Data Rights requests made pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-
       1306 with which the Controller has previously complied. Such records shall be retained for at
       least twenty-four (24) months and shall be made available at the completion of a merger,
       acquisition, bankruptcy, or other transaction in which a Third Party assumes control of Personal
       Data to ensure any new Controller continues to recognize the Consumer’s previously exercised
       Data Rights.

C.     Controllers shall maintain documents sufficient to demonstrate compliance with 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rules 6.07, 6.08, and 7.06 for as long as the Processing activity continues, and for at least
       twenty-four (24) months after the conclusion of Processing activity.

D.     Required records shall be maintained in a readable format, appropriate to the sophistication and
       size of the Controller’s business.

E.     The Controller shall implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices,
       consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.09, in maintaining all required records.

F.     Personal Data maintained pursuant to this 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.11, where that information is not
       used for any other purpose, shall not be subject to Data Rights requests.

G.     Personal Data maintained for required documentation shall not be used for any other purpose
       except as reasonably necessary for the business to review and modify its processes for
       compliance with the Colorado Privacy Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1301, et seq., and these rules. Personal
       Data maintained for required documentation shall not be shared with any Third Party except as




                                                                                                           25
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


         necessary to comply with a legal obligation or as part of a merger, acquisition, bankruptcy, or
         other transaction in which a Third Party assumes control of Personal Data.

H.       Other than as required by this subsection and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 4.06, a Controller is not
         required to retain Personal Data solely for the purpose of fulfilling a Data Rights request made
         under the Colorado Privacy Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1301, et seq.

PART 7           CONSENT

Rule 7.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 7 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-1306,
         6-1-1308 and 6-1-1313. The purpose of the rules in this Part 7 is to provide clarity on the
         requirements to obtain Consent when Consent is required under the statute, including the
         prohibition against obtaining agreement through the use of Dark Patterns.

Rule 7.02        REQUIRED CONSENT

A.       Pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 6-1-1308(4), and 6-1-1308(7), a
         Controller must obtain valid Consumer Consent prior to:

         1.      Processing a Consumer’s Sensitive Data;

         2.      Processing Personal Data concerning a known Child, in which case the Child’s parent or
                 lawful guardian must provide Consent;

         3.      Selling a Consumer’s Personal Data, Processing a Consumer’s Personal Data for
                 Targeted Advertising, or Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or
                 Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer after the Consumer has exercised
                 the right to opt out of the Processing for those purposes; and

         4.      Processing Personal Data for purposes that are not reasonably necessary to, or
                 compatible with, the original specified purposes for which the Personal Data are
                 Processed.

B.       Controllers may rely upon valid consent obtained prior to July 1, 2023, to continue to Process a
         Consumer’s previously collected Personal Data, including Sensitive Data, collected before July 1,
         2023. Consent obtained before July 1, 2023, shall be considered valid only if it would comply with
         the requirements set forth in C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 6-1-1308(4), and 6-1-
         1308(7) and Part 7 of these rules.

         1.      Controllers that do not obtain valid Consent prior to July 1, 2023 to continue to use, store,
                 or otherwise Process Sensitive Data collected prior to this date must obtain valid
                 Consent, as required by C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 6-1-1308(4), and
                 6-1-1308(7) and Part 7 of these rules, by July 1, 2024 to continue to Process the
                 previously collected Sensitive Data.

         2.      If a Controller has collected Personal Data prior to July 1, 2023 and the Processing
                 purpose changes after July 1, 2023 such that it is considered a secondary use pursuant
                 to C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(4) and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.08, the Controller must obtain valid
                 Consent, as required by C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 6-1-1308(4), and
                 6-1-1308(7) and Part 7 of these rules, at the time the Processing purpose changes to
                 continue to Process the previously collected Personal Data.




                                                                                                            26
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


C.     Notwithstanding the above, a Controller Processing Sensitive Data Inferences is not required to
       obtain Consent for the Processing activity if the Processing falls within the requirements of 4 CCR
       904-3, Rule 6.10.

Rule 7.03      REQUIREMENTS FOR VALID CONSENT

A.     To be valid, a Consent must meet each of the following elements: (1) it must be obtained through
       the Consumer's clear, affirmative action; (2) it must be freely given by the Consumer; (3) it must
       be specific; (4) it must be informed; and (5) it must reflect the Consumer’s unambiguous
       agreement.

B.     Consent must be obtained through the Consumer’s clear, affirmative action. For purposes of
       obtaining valid Consent:

       1.      A “clear, affirmative action” means a Consumer’s Consent is communicated through
               either (a) deliberate and clear conduct, or (b) a statement that clearly indicates their
               acceptance of the proposed Processing of their Personal Data.

       2.      A blanketed acceptance of general terms and conditions, silence, inactivity or in action,
               pre-ticked boxes, and other negative option opt-out constructions that require intervention
               from the Consumer to prevent agreement are not clear affirmative actions for the
               purposes of valid Consent.

C.     Consent must be freely given. For purposes of obtaining valid Consent:

       1.      Consent is freely given when Consumers may refuse Consent without detriment and
               withdraw Consent easily at any time.

       2.      Consent is not freely given when:

               a.      It reflects acceptance of a general or broad terms of use or similar document that
                       contains descriptions of Personal Data Processing along with other, unrelated
                       information;

               b.      The performance of a contract is dependent on Consent to Process Personal
                       Data that is not necessary to provide the goods or services contemplated by the
                       contract; or

               c.      The Controller denies goods, services, discounts, or promotions to a Consumer
                       who chooses not to provide Consent, unless:

                       i.       The Personal Data is necessary to the provision of those goods,
                                services, discounts, or promotions, consistent with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
                                6.05; or

                       ii.      The Consent is otherwise required in connection with a Consumer’s
                                voluntary participation in a Bona Fide Loyalty Program, consistent with
                                the requirements in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.05.

       3.      Example: An online dating application’s terms and conditions tells users that the
               application will disclose collected Personal Data, including Sensitive Data revealing
               sexual orientation, with similar applications for advertising purposes. Consent is required
               for the disclosure of Sensitive Data with similar applications for advertising purposes.
               Since users cannot accept the required terms and conditions without the opportunity to




                                                                                                          27
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               separately provide or withhold Consent for sharing with similar applications, the Consent
               is not freely given.

D.     Consent must be specific.

       1.      When Controllers request Consent to Process Personal Data for more than one
               Processing purpose, and those Processing purposes are not reasonably necessary to or
               compatible with one another, Consumers must have the ability to separately Consent to
               each specific purpose.

               a.      Controllers may request Consent to Process Personal Data for multiple
                       Processing purposes that are not reasonably necessary to or compatible with
                       one another using a single Consent request as long there is also an option for
                       more granular Consent within the same Consent interface.

       2.      Consent to Process Personal Data for one specific purpose does not constitute valid
               Consent to Process Personal Data for other purposes that are not reasonably necessary
               to or compatible with that specific purpose.

       3.      The Sale of Sensitive Data to one specific party is not necessary to or compatible with
               the Sale of Sensitive Data to a different party.

               a.      Example: A cosmetic retailer asks a customer for Consent to use Sensitive Data
                       revealing the customer’s racial origin in order to provide first-party targeted offers
                       to the customer and to Sell the customer’s racial origin information to Data
                       Brokers. This Consent is not specific as there is no opportunity to provide
                       separate Consent for the two separate Processing purposes. Therefore, Consent
                       in this example would not be valid.

               b.      Example: In the example above, the Controller requests Consent only to Sell
                       Sensitive Data revealing the customer’s racial origin with commercial partners.
                       The Controller lists “Fashion Co. #1” and “Make Up Co. #1” as commercial
                       partners who will receive Sensitive Data. Consent would be deemed valid for
                       only these two Third Parties because their identity was provided to the Consumer
                       at the time that his or her Consent was collected. Consent would not be deemed
                       valid for Selling with another Third Party whose identity has not been provided.

E.     Consent must be informed.

       1.      When requesting Consent, a Controller must provide the following information, at a
               minimum:

               a.      The Controller’s identity;

               b.      The plain-language reason that Consent is required;

               c.      The Processing purpose(s) for which Consent is sought;

               d.      The categories of Personal Data that the Controller shall Process to effectuate
                       the Processing purpose(s);

               e.      Names of all Third Parties receiving the Sensitive Data through Sale, if
                       applicable;




                                                                                                          28
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               f.      A description of the Consumer’s right to withdraw Consent for the identified
                       Processing purpose at any time in accordance with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.07 and
                       details of how and where to do so; and

               g.      Any disclosures required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 6.05 and 9.05.

F.     Consent may not be obtained using Dark Patterns as defined in C.R.S § 6-1-1309(9) and
       prohibited by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.09. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(5)(c) and 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rule 7.09, any agreement obtained through Dark Patterns is not valid Consent.

Rule 7.04      REQUESTS FOR CONSENT

A.     Controllers shall provide a simple form or mechanism to enable a Consumer to provide Consent
       when required, including Consent to Processing purposes from which the Consumer has
       previously opted out. Such a form or mechanism should be easy for a reasonable Consumer to
       locate and should comply with the other requirements set forth in Part 7 of these rules.

B.     Requests for Consent shall be prominent, concise, and separate and distinct from other terms
       and conditions, and shall comply with all requirements for disclosures and communications to
       Consumers set forth in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02.

C.     Any Consent request by a Controller must contain the disclosures required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
       7.03(E)(1) either directly or through a link. Where possible, the request interface itself should
       contain the disclosures required by 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.03(E)(1)(a)-(d). Alternatively, the
       Controller may provide the Consumer with a link to a webpage containing the required Consent
       disclosures, provided the request clearly states the title and heading of the webpage section
       containing the relevant disclosures. If technically feasible, the request method must also link the
       Consumer directly to the relevant section of the disclosure.

D.     Example: A mobile application requests Consent to Process Sensitive Data. The Consent request
       provides a link to the application’s privacy notice which contains the required Consent
       disclosures. However, the Consent request does not direct or bring the Consumer to the relevant
       section of the privacy notice. Consent is not valid because the Consent request does not clearly
       indicate the title and section where the Consumer can find the required disclosures and did not
       link the Consumer directly to the relevant section of the privacy notice.

E.     Example: Acme Toy Store collects customer email addresses in order to send customers
       information about product recalls, and maintains those email addresses in a recall email
       distribution list. Acme Toy Store wants to Sell the recall email distribution list to a Third Party
       partner to enable that partner to send those customers promotional materials. Acme Toy Store
       must obtain customer consent prior to Selling the recall email distribution list because Selling the
       recall email distribution list is not reasonably necessary to or compatible with providing product
       recall information. Acme Toy Store emails its customers attaching a revised privacy notice
       disclosing the new Processing purpose and asks customers to Consent to the new privacy notice,
       but does not state the new purpose in the email, and does not direct customers to the section of
       the privacy notice disclosing the secondary purpose. Consent is not valid because the email did
       not contain the required Consent disclosures or direct the customers to a document containing
       the required Consent disclosures.

       1.      Example: Under the same circumstances, Acme Toy Store emails its customers on the
               recall distribution list informing those customers that Consent is required for the Acme
               Toy Store to Process email addresses for the secondary purpose of Selling the recall
               distribution list to a Third Party partner to enable that partner to send promotional
               materials, providing all other required disclosures and including a mechanism that
               enables the customers to provide Consent and to revoke Consent through the same user




                                                                                                        29
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               interface. Consent is valid because the email contained all required Consent disclosures
               in an acceptable form.

       2.      Example: Under the same circumstances, Acme Toy Store emails the product recall
               email distribution list informing those customers that it would like to use their email
               addresses for the secondary purpose of Selling the recall distribution list to a Third Party
               partner as contemplated in section B.2.e. of its privacy notice, explains that it cannot use
               the customers’ email addresses for that secondary purpose without their consent, and
               requests the customers’ Consent to Process their email address for that secondary
               purpose. It then provides a link directly to section B.2.e. of its privacy notice which
               explains that Acme Toy Store Sells customer email addresses, including those
               Processed for the purpose of product recall notifications, to marketing partners, in
               addition to all other disclosures. The email provides a Consent mechanism that enables
               the customers to provide or revoke consent through the same user interface. Consent is
               valid because the email and linked page together contained all required disclosures, the
               email provided the specific section of the relevant disclosures, and the link brought the
               customers directly to the relevant disclosures.

Rule 7.05      CONSENT AFTER OPT-OUT

A.     The Consumer’s decision to Consent to Processing activities from which the Consumer has
       previously opted-out using either a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism or directly with a particular
       Controller is subject to the requirements for Consent under 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 7.03 and 7.04.

B.     A Controller that wishes to obtain Consent to Process Personal Data for an Opt-Out Purpose
       after the Consumer has opted out of Processing for that Purpose shall not request Consent using
       schemes that cause consent fatigue, such as interface dominating cookie banners, high
       frequency requests, cookie walls, pop-ups, or other any other interstitials that degrade or obstruct
       the Consumer’s experience on the Controller’s web page or application.

       1.      A Controller may proactively request Consent to Process Personal Data for an Opt-Out
               Purpose after the Consumer has opted out, by providing a link to a privacy settings page,
               menu, or similar interface, or comparable offline method, that enables the Consumer to
               Consent to the Controller Processing the Personal Data for the Opt-Out Purpose, so long
               as the request for Consent meets all other requirements for valid Consent under this Part
               7.

       2.      If a Controller has a reasonable belief that a Consumer intended to opt back into the Sale
               of Personal Data or Processing of Personal Data for Targeted Advertising, the Controller
               may proactively send a link to a privacy settings page or other method to enable the
               Consumer to Consent to the Controller Processing the Personal Data for the Opt-Out
               Purpose directly to a Consumer.

C.     If a Controller conspicuously displays the status of the Consumer’s opt-out choice on the website
       pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 5.08(E), the link to provide Consent may appear beside or in
       conjunction with the Consumer’s opt-out status.

D.     If a Consumer has opted-out of the Processing of Personal Data for the Opt-Out Purposes, and
       then initiates a transaction or attempts to use a product or service inconsistent with the request to
       opt-out, such as signing up for a Bona Fide Loyalty Program that also involves the Sale of
       Personal Data to a Bona Fide Loyalty Program Partner, the Controller may request the
       Consumer’s Consent to Process the Consumer’s Personal Data for that purpose, so long as the
       request for Consent complies with all provisions of 4 CCR 904-3, Rules 7.03 and 7.04.




                                                                                                         30
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


E.     Example: A Consumer opts out of the use of Personal Data for Sale or Targeted Advertising
       using a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism. The Consumer visits the website of a fashion retailer that
       routinely shares Consumer Personal Data for Targeted Advertising. The fashion retailer must
       obtain the Consumer’s consent because the Consumer has already opted out of Processing for
       that purpose. The fashion retailer’s website displays a pop-up banner seeking Consent to share
       the Consumer’s Personal Data for Targeted Advertising. This is not a valid request for Consumer
       Consent because the request is made through a pop-up banner that degrades or obstructs the
       Consumer’s experience on the Controller’s web page or application.

F.     Example: A Consumer opts out of the use of Personal Data for Sale or Targeted Advertising
       using a Universal Opt-Out Mechanism. The Consumer visits a fashion retailer’s website. The
       fashion retailer’s homepage contains a message at the top of the webpage that displays the
       Consumer’s opt-out status, stating, “you have opted out of targeted advertising” next to a link that
       states “Opt-in to Data Use”. The linked webpage also meets all requirements of 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rules 7.03 and 7.04. Consent pursuant to this request is valid.

Rule 7.06      CONSENT FOR CHILDREN

A.     When a Controller engages in Processing activities involving the collection and Processing of
       Personal Data from a known Child or operates a website or business directed to Children or has
       actual knowledge that it is collecting or maintaining Personal Data from a Child, the Controller
       must obtain Consent from the parent or lawful guardian of that Child before collecting or
       Processing the Child’s Personal Data.

B.     A Controller Processing the Personal Data of a Child must make reasonable efforts to obtain
       verifiable parental Consent, taking into consideration available technology. Any method to obtain
       verifiable parental Consent must be reasonably calculated, in light of available technology, to
       ensure that the person providing Consent is the Child's parent or lawful guardian.

C.     Reasonably calculated methods for determining that a person Consenting to the Processing of a
       Child’s Personal Data is the parent or lawful guardian of that Child include, but are not limited to:

       1.      Providing a Consent form to be signed by the parent or guardian under penalty of perjury
               and returned to the business by postal mail, facsimile, or electronic scan;

       2.      Requiring a parent or guardian, in connection with a monetary transaction, to use a credit
               card, debit card, or other online payment system that provides notification of each
               discrete transaction to the primary account holder;

       3.      Having a parent or guardian call a toll-free telephone number staffed by trained
               personnel;

       4.      Having a parent or guardian connect to trained personnel via videoconference; and

       5.      Verifying a parent or guardian’s identity by checking a form of government-issued
               identification against databases of such information, as long as the parent or guardian’s
               identification is deleted by the business from its records promptly after such verification is
               complete.

D.     Any Personal Data collected for purposes of verifying the identity of a parent or legal guardian
       may not be used for any reason other than Processing these verifications.

Rule 7.07      REFUSING OR WITHDRAWING CONSENT




                                                                                                          31
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                  4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


A.     A Consumer shall be able to refuse or revoke Consent as easily and within a similar number of
       steps as Consent is affirmatively provided.

B.     If Consent is obtained through an electronic interface, the Consumer shall be able to refuse or
       withdraw Consent through the same or similar electronic interface.

C.     When using an electronic interface, and when feasible based on the Consumer’s relationship with
       the Controller, a Controller may allow Consumers to track what Processing activities they have
       Consented to or opted out of.

D.     There shall be no detriment to a Consumer for refusing or withdrawing Consent, consistent with
       C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(1)(c)(II), and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 6.05.

       1.      Notwithstanding 4 CCR 904-3 Rule 7.07(D), if a Consumer refuses to Consent to, or
               withdraws consent for the Processing of Sensitive Data or Personal Data strictly
               necessary for a program, product or service, the Controller is no longer obligated to
               provide that program, product or service.

E.     If a Consumer withdraws Consent for a Processing activity, subject to Consent under C.R.S. §§
       6-1-1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 1308(4), and 1308(7), the Controller shall cease that Processing activity
       and, in the notice required by C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(2), provide the Consumer instructions on how to
       exercise the right to deletion, provide a link to exercise the right to deletion, or inform the
       Consumer that information regarding the right to delete their Personal Data can be found in the
       Controller’s privacy notice.

Rule 7.08      REFRESHING CONSENT

A.     When a Consumer has not interacted with a Controller in the prior twenty-four (24) months, the
       Controller must refresh Consent in compliance with all requirements of this Part 7 to:

       1.      Continue Processing Sensitive Data pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(7); or

       2.      Continue Processing Personal Data for a Secondary Use pursuant to C.R.S. § 1308(4), if
               the Secondary Use involves Profiling for a decision that results in the provision or denial
               of financial or lending services, housing, insurance, education enrollment or opportunity,
               criminal justice, employment opportunities, health-care services, or access to essential
               goods or services.

B.     Controllers are not required to refresh Consent under part A of this section where a Consumer
       has access and ability to update their opt-out preferences at any time through a user-controlled
       interface.

C.     If a Processing purpose materially evolves such that the new purpose becomes a secondary use
       pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(4), the Consumer’s original Consent is no longer valid, and the
       Controller must obtain new Consent pursuant to Part 7 of these rules.

Rule 7.09      USER INTERFACE DESIGN, CHOICE ARCHITECTURE, AND DARK PATTERNS

A.     The following principles should be considered when designing a user interface or a choice
       architecture used to obtain Consent when required under C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303(5), 6-1-
       1306(1)(a)(IV)(C), 6-1-1308(4), and 6-1-1308(7):

       1.      Consent choice options should be presented to Consumers in a symmetrical way that
               does not impose unequal weight or focus on one available choice over another such that
               a Consumer’s ability to consent is impaired or subverted.




                                                                                                          32
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               a.      Example: One choice should not be presented with less prominent size, font, or
                       styling than the other choice. Presenting an “I accept” button in a larger size than
                       the “I do not accept” button would not be considered equal or symmetrical.
                       Presenting an “I do not accept” button in a greyed-out color while the “I accept”
                       button is presented in a bright or obvious color would not be considered equal or
                       symmetrical.

               b.      Example: If multiple choices are offered to a Consumer, it should be equally easy
                       to accept or reject all options. Presenting the option to “accept all” when offering
                       a Consumer the choice to Consent to the use of Sensitive Data for multiple
                       purposes without an option to “reject all” would not be considered equal or
                       symmetrical.

       2.      Consent choice options should avoid the use of emotionally manipulative language or
               visuals to unfairly, fraudulently, or deceptively coerce or steer Consumer choice or
               Consent.

               a.      Example: One choice should not be presented in a way that creates unnecessary
                       guilt or shames the user into selecting a specific choice. Presenting the choices “I
                       accept, I want to help endangered species” vs “No, I don’t care about animals”
                       may be considered unfairly emotionally manipulative.

               b.      Example: The explanation of the choice to Consumers should not include
                       gratuitous information to emotionally manipulate Consumers. Explaining that a
                       mobile application “helps save lives” when asking for Consent to collect Sensitive
                       Data for Targeted Advertising may be considered deceptively emotionally
                       manipulative if the Targeted Advertising is not critical to the lifesaving
                       functionality of the application.

       3.      A Consumer’s silence or failure to take an affirmative action should not be interpreted as
               acceptance or Consent.

               a.      Example: A Consumer closing a pop-up window which requests Consent without
                       first affirmatively selecting the equivalent of an “I accept” button should not be
                       interpreted as Consent.

               b.      Example: A Consumer navigating forward on a webpage after a Consent choice
                       has been presented without selecting the equivalent of an “I accept” button
                       should not be interpreted as affirmative Consent.

               c.      Example: A Consumer continuing to use a Smart TV without replying “I accept”
                       or “I consent” in reply to a verbal request for Consent should not be interpreted
                       as affirmative Consent.

       4.      Consent choice options should not be presented with a preselected or default option.

               a.      Example: Checkboxes or radio buttons should not be selected automatically
                       when presented to a Consumer.

       5.      A Consumer should be able to select either Consent choice option within a similar
               number of steps. A Consumer’s ability to exercise a more privacy-protective option shall
               not be unduly longer, more difficult, or time-consuming than the path to exercise a less
               privacy-protective option.




                                                                                                           33
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               a.      Example: Consumers should be presented with all choices at the same time.
                       Presenting an "I accept” button next to a “Learn More” button which requires
                       Consumers to take an extra step before they are given the option of an “I do not
                       accept” button could be considered an unnecessary restriction.

               b.      Example: Describing the choice before Consumers and placing both the “I
                       accept” and “I do not accept” buttons after a “select preferences” button would
                       not be considered an unnecessary restriction.

       6.      A Consumer’s expected interaction with a website, application, or product should not be
               unnecessarily interrupted or intruded upon to request Consent.

               a.      Example: Consumers should not be interrupted multiple times in one visit to a
                       website to Consent if they have declined the Consent choice offered when they
                       arrived at the page.

               b.      Example: Consumers should not be redirected away from the content or service
                       they are attempting to interact with because they declined the Consent choice
                       offered, unless Consent to process the requested data is strictly necessary to
                       provide the website or application content or experience.

               c.      Example: Consumers should not be forced to navigate through multiple pop-ups
                       which cover or otherwise disrupt the content or service they are attempting to
                       interact with because they declined the Consent choice offered.

       7.      Consent choice options should not include misleading statements, omissions, affirmative
               misstatements, or intentionally confusing language to obtain Consent.

               a.      Example: Choices should not be driven by a false sense of urgency. A
                       countdown clock displayed next to a Consent choice option which states “time is
                       running out to Consent to this data use and receive a limited discount” where the
                       discount is not actually limited by time or availability would be considered
                       creating a false sense of urgency.

               b.      Example: Choices should avoid the use of double negatives when describing
                       Consent choice options to Consumers.

               c.      Example: Consent choice options should not be presented with confusing or
                       unexpected syntax. “Please do not check this box if you wish to Consent to this
                       data use” would be considered confusing syntax.

               d.      Example: The language used for choice options should logically follow the
                       question presented to the Consumer. Offering the options of “Yes” or “No” to the
                       question “Do you wish to provide or decline Consent for the described purposes”
                       would be considered an illogical choice option. The choice options “provide” and
                       “decline” would be considered to logically follow the same question.

       8.      The vulnerabilities or unique characteristics of the target audience of a product, service,
               or website should be considered when deciding how to present Consent choice options.

               a.      Example: A website or service that primarily interacts with Consumers under the
                       age of 18 should consider the simplicity of the language used to explain the
                       choice options or the way in which cartoon imagery or endorsements might
                       unduly influence their choice.




                                                                                                         34
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


                 b.      Example: A website or service that primarily interacts with the elderly should
                         consider font size and space between buttons to ensure readability and ease of
                         interaction with design elements.

         9.      User interface design and Consent choice architecture should operate in a substantially
                 similar manner when accessed through digital accessibility tools.

                 a.      Example: If it takes two clicks for a Consumer to Consent through a website, it
                         should take no more than two actions for a Consumer using a digital accessibility
                         tool to complete the same Consent process.

B.       In addition to the principles included in this part 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.09(A), Controllers may
         consider statutes, administrative rules, and administrative guidance concerning Dark Patterns
         from other jurisdictions when evaluating the appropriateness of the user interface or choice
         architecture used to obtain required Consent.

C.       Controllers shall not use an interface design or choice architecture to obtain required Consent
         that has been designed or manipulated with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user
         autonomy, decision making or choice, or unfairly, fraudulently, or deceptively manipulating or
         coercing a Consumer into providing Consent.

         1.      The principles outlined in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.09(A) and (B) are factors to be considered
                 when determining if a consent interface design or choice architecture has been designed
                 or manipulated with the substantial effect of subverting or impairing user autonomy,
                 decision making or choice, or unfairly, fraudulently, or deceptively manipulating or
                 coercing a Consumer into providing Consent.

D.       Consent obtained in violation of this part 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 7.09(C) may be considered a Dark
         Pattern, as defined in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(9).

E.       The fact that a design or practice is commonly used is not, alone, enough to demonstrate that any
         particular design or practice is not a Dark Pattern.

F.       Consent obtained through Dark Patterns does not constitute valid Consent in compliance with
         C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1303, 6-1-1306, and 6-1-1308.

PART 8           DATA PROTECTION ASSESSMENTS

Rule 8.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.       The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 8 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1309, and 6-1-
         1313. The purpose of the rules in this Part 8 is to provide clarity on the requirements and timing of
         data protection assessments.

Rule 8.02        SCOPE

A.       A data protection assessment shall be a genuine, thoughtful analysis of each Personal Data
         Processing activity that presents a heightened risk of harm to a Consumer, pursuant to C.R.S. §
         6-1-1309(3), that: 1) identifies and describes the risks to the rights of consumers associated with
         the processing; 2) documents measures considered and taken to address and offset those risks,
         including those duties required by C.R.S. § 6-1-1308; 3) contemplates the benefits of the
         Processing; and 4) demonstrates that the benefits of the Processing outweigh the risks offset by
         safeguards in place.




                                                                                                           35
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


B.     If a Controller conducts a data protection assessment for the purpose of complying with another
       jurisdiction’s law or regulation, the assessment shall satisfy the requirements established in this
       section if such data protection assessment is reasonably similar in scope and effect to the data
       protection assessment that would otherwise be conducted pursuant to this section.

       1.      If a data protection assessment conducted for the purpose of complying with another
               jurisdiction’s law or regulation is not similar in scope and effect to a data protection
               assessment created pursuant to this section, a Controller may submit that assessment
               with a supplement that contains any additional information required by this jurisdiction.

C.     The depth, level of detail, and scope of data protection assessments should take into account the
       scope of risk presented, the size of the Controller, amount and sensitivity of Personal Data
       Processed, Personal Data Processing activities subject to the assessment, and complexity of
       safeguards applied.

D.     A “comparable set of Processing operations” that can be addressed by a single data protection
       assessment pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1309(5) is a set of similar Processing operations including
       similar activities that present heightened risks of similar harm to a Consumer.

       1.      Example: The ACME Toy Store chain is considering using in-store paper forms to collect
               names, mailing addresses, and birthdays from Children that visit their stores, and using
               that information to mail a coupon and list of age-appropriate toys to each child during the
               Child’s birth month and every November. ACME uses the same Processors and
               Processing systems for each category of mailings across all stores. ACME must conduct
               and document a data protection assessment because it is Processing Personal Data
               from known Children, which is Sensitive Data. ACME can use the same data protection
               assessment for Processing the Personal Data for the birthday mailing and November
               mailing across all stores because in each case it is collecting the same categories of
               Personal Data in the same way for the purpose of sending coupons and age-appropriate
               toy lists to Children.

Rule 8.03      STAKEHOLDER INVOLVEMENT

A.     A data protection assessment shall involve all relevant internal actors from across the Controller's
       organizational structure, and where appropriate, relevant external parties, to identify, assess and
       address the data protection risks.

Rule 8.04      DATA PROTECTION ASSESSMENT CONTENT

A.     At a minimum, a data protection assessment must include the following information:

       1.      A short summary of the Processing activity;

       2.      The categories of Personal Data to be Processed and whether they include Sensitive
               Data, including Personal Data from a known Child as described in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(24);

       3.      The context of the Processing activity, including the relationship between the Controller
               and the Consumers whose Personal Data will be Processed, and the reasonable
               expectations of those Consumers;

       4.      The nature and operational elements of the Processing activity. In determining the level
               of detail and specificity to provide pursuant to this section, the Controller shall consider
               the type, amount, and sensitivity of Personal Data Processed, the impacts that
               operational elements will have on the level of risk presented by the Processing activity,
               and any relevant unique relationships. Relevant operational elements may include:




                                                                                                           36
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               a.      Sources of Personal Data;

               b.      Technology or Processors to be used;

               c.      Names or categories of Personal Data recipients, including Third Parties,
                       Affiliates, and Processors that will have access to the Personal Data, the
                       processing purpose for which the Personal Data will be provided to those
                       recipients, and categorical compliance processes that the Controller uses to
                       evaluate that type of recipient;

               d.      Operational details about the Processing, including planned processes for
                       Personal Data collection, use, storage, retention, and sharing;

               e.      Specific types of Personal Data to be processed.

       5.      The core purposes of the Processing activity, as well as other benefits of the Processing
               that may flow, directly and indirectly to the Controller, Consumer, other expected
               stakeholders, and the public;

       6.      The sources and nature of risks to the rights of Consumers associated with the
               Processing activity posed by the Processing activity. The source and nature of the risks
               may differ based on the processing activity and type of Personal Data processed. Risks
               to the rights of Consumers that a Controller may consider in a data protection
               assessment include, for example, risks of:

               a.      Constitutional harms, such as speech harms or associational harms;

               b.      Intellectual privacy harms, such as the creation of negative inferences about an
                       individual based on what an individual reads, learns, or debates;

               c.      Data security harms, such as unauthorized access or adversarial use;

               d.      Discrimination harms, such as a violation of federal antidiscrimination laws or
                       antidiscrimination laws of any state or political subdivision thereof, or unlawful
                       disparate impact;

               e.      Unfair, unconscionable, or deceptive treatment;

               f.      A negative outcome or decision with respect to an individual’s eligibility for a
                       right, privilege, or benefit related to financial or lending services, housing,
                       insurance, education enrollment or opportunity, criminal justice, employment
                       opportunities, health-care services, or access to essential goods or services;

               g.      Financial injury or economic harm;

               h.      Physical injury, harassment, or threat to an individual or property;

               i.      Privacy harms, such as physical or other intrusion upon the solitude or seclusion
                       or the private affairs or concerns of Consumers, stigmatization or reputational
                       injury;

               j.      Psychological harm, including anxiety, embarrassment, fear, and other mental
                       trauma; or




                                                                                                            37
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


               k.       Other detrimental or negative consequences that affect an individual’s private
                        life, private affairs, private family matters or similar concerns, including actions
                        and communications within an individual’s home or similar physical, online, or
                        digital location, where an individual has a reasonable expectation that Personal
                        Data or other data will not be collected, observed, or used.

       7.      Measures and safeguards the Controller will employ to reduce the risks identified by the
               Controller pursuant to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 8.04(A)(6). Measures shall include the
               following, as applicable:

               a.       The use of De-identified Data;

               b.       Measures taken pursuant to the Controller duties in C.R.S. § 6-1-1308, including
                        an overview of data security practices the Controller has implemented, any data
                        security assessments that have been completed pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-
                        1308(5), and any measures taken to comply with the consent requirements of 4
                        CCR 904-3, Rule 7; and

               c.       Measures taken to ensure that Consumers have access to the rights provided in
                        C.R.S. § 6-1-1306.

       8.      A description of how the benefits of the Processing outweigh the risks identified pursuant
               to 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 8.04(A)(6), as mitigated by the safeguards identified pursuant to 4
               CCR 904-3, Rule 8.04(A)(7).

               a.       Contractual agreements in place to ensure that Personal Data in the possession
                        of a Processor or other Third Party remains secure; or

               b.       Any other practices, policies, or trainings intended to mitigate Processing risks.

       9.      If a Controller is Processing Personal Data for Profiling as contemplated in C.R.S. § 6-1-
               1309(2)(a), a data protection assessment of that Processing activity must also comply
               with 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.06;

       10.     If a Controller is Processing Sensitive Data pursuant to the exception in section 4 CCR
               904-3, Rule 6.10, the details of the process implemented to ensure that Personal Data
               and Sensitive Data Inferences are not transferred and are deleted within twenty-four (24)
               hours of the Personal Data Processing activity;

       11.     Relevant internal actors and external parties contributing to the data protection
               assessment;

       12.     Any internal or external audit conducted in relation to the data protection assessment,
               including, the name of the auditor, the names and positions of individuals involved in the
               review process, and the details of the audit process; and

       13.     Dates the data protection assessment was reviewed and approved, and names,
               positions, and signatures of the individuals responsible for the review and approval.

Rule 8.05      TIMING

A.     A Controller shall conduct and document a data protection assessment before initiating a
       Processing activity that Presents a Heightened Risk of Harm to a Consumer, as defined at C.R.S.
       § 6-1-1309(2).




                                                                                                             38
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


B.       A Controller shall review and update the data protection assessment as often as appropriate
         considering the type, amount, and sensitivity of Personal Data Processed and level of risk
         presented by the Processing, throughout the Processing activity’s lifecycle in order to: 1) monitor
         for harm caused by the Processing and adjust safeguards accordingly; and 2) ensure that data
         protection and privacy are considered as the Controller makes new decisions with respect to the
         Processing.

C.       Data protection assessments containing Processing for Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that
         Produce Legal or Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer shall be reviewed and
         updated at least annually, and include an updated evaluation for fairness and disparate impact
         and the results of any such evaluation.

D.       A new data Processing activity is generated when existing Processing activities are modified in a
         way that materially changes the level of risk presented. When a new data Processing activity is
         generated, a data protection assessment must reflect changes to the pre-existing activity and
         additional considerations and safeguards to offset the new risk level.

         1.      Modifications that may materially change the level of risk of a Processing activity may
                 include, without limitation, changes to any of the following:

                 a.      The way that existing systems or Processes handle Personal Data;

                 b.      Processing purpose;

                 c.      Personal data Processed or sources of Personal Data;

                 d.      Method of collection of Personal Data;

                 e.      Personal Data recipients;

                 f.      Processor roles or Processors;

                 g.      Algorithm applied or algorithmic result; or

                 h.      Software or other systems used for Processing.

E.       Data protection assessments, including prior versions which have been revised when a new data
         Processing activity is generated, shall be stored for as long as the Processing activity continues,
         and for at least three (3) years after the conclusion of the Processing activity. Data protection
         assessments shall be held in an electronic, transferable form.

F.       Data protection assessments shall be required for activities created or generated after July 1,
         2023. This requirement is not retroactive.

Rule 8.06        ATTORNEY GENERAL REQUESTS

A.       A Controller shall make the data protection assessment available to the Attorney General within
         thirty (30) days of the Attorney General’s request.

PART 9           PROFILING

Rule 9.01        AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE




                                                                                                           39
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                      4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


A.     The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 9 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1), 6-1-1302(1)(c)(II)(B), 6-
       1-1303, 6-1-1306, 6-1-1309, and 6-1-1313. The purpose of the rules in this Part 9 is to provide
       clarity on the duties and rights related to Profiling.

Rule 9.02      SCOPE

A.     Controllers have an affirmative obligation to provide clear, understandable, and transparent
       information to Consumers about how their Personal Data is used, including for Profiling, pursuant
       to C.R.S. § 6-1-1302(1)(c)(II)(B).

B.     Consumers have the right to opt out of Profiling as defined in C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(20) and 4 CCR
       904-3, Rule 2.02 when the Profiling is done in furtherance of a decision that results in the
       provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, insurance, education enrollment or
       opportunity, criminal justice, employment opportunities, health-care services, or access to
       essential goods or services, pursuant to C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I).

C.     Controllers must conduct and document a data protection assessment compliant with C.R.S. § 6-
       1-1309 and Parts 8 and 9 of these rules before Processing Personal Data for Profiling that
       presents specific, reasonably foreseeable risks contemplated in C.R.S. § 6-1-1309(2)(a).

Rule 9.03      PROFILING OPT-OUT TRANSPARENCY

A.     To ensure that Consumers understand how their Personal Data is used for Profiling in
       furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Other Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a
       Consumer, Controllers that Process Personal Data for Profiling for a decision that results in the
       provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing, insurance, education enrollment or
       opportunity, criminal justice, employment opportunities, health-care services, or access to
       essential goods or services and subject to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I) shall provide clear,
       understandable, and transparent information to Consumers in the required privacy notice,
       including at a minimum:

       1.      What decision(s) is (are) subject to Profiling;

       2.      The categories of Personal Data that were or will be Processed as part of the Profiling in
               Furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Other Similarly Significant Effects;

       3.      A non-technical, plain language explanation of the logic used in the Profiling process;

       4.      A non-technical, plain language explanation of how Profiling is used in the decision-
               making process, including the role of human involvement, if any;

       5.      If the system has been evaluated for accuracy, fairness, or bias, including the impact of
               the use of Sensitive Data, and the outcome of any such evaluation;

       6.      The benefits and potential consequences of the decision based on the Profiling; and

       7.      Information about how a Consumer may exercise the right to opt out of the Processing of
               Personal Data concerning the Consumer for Profiling in Furtherance of Decisions that
               Produce Legal or Other Similarly Significant Effects.

B.     Notwithstanding the requirements in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.03(A), nothing in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
       9.03 shall be construed as requiring the Controller to provide information to a Consumer in a
       manner that would disclose the Controller’s trade secrets.




                                                                                                            40
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                   4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


Rule 9.04      OPTING OUT OF PROFILING IN FURTHERANCE OF DECISIONS THAT PRODUCE
               LEGAL OR SIMILARLY SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS CONCERNING A CONSUMER

A.     Consumers have the right to opt out of Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or
       other Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer through the method specified by the
       Controller in the required privacy notice, pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(1)(a) and 4 CCR 904-3,
       Rule 4.03.

B.     Requests to opt out of Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or other Similarly
       Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer based on Solely Automated Processing or Human
       Reviewed Automated Processing shall be honored pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-1306(2).

C.     A Controller may decide not to take action on a request to opt out of Profiling in furtherance of
       Decisions that Produce Legal or other Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer if the
       Profiling used is based on Human Involved Automated Processing. If a Controller does not take
       action based on this reason, the Controller shall inform the Consumer pursuant to C.R.S. § 6-1-
       1306(2)(b) and include the following information, or share a link to such information if it is
       included in the Controller’s privacy notice:

       1.      The decision subject to the Profiling;

       2.      The categories of Personal Data that were or will be used as part of the Profiling used in
               Furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Other Similarly Significant Effects;

       3.      A non-technical, plain language explanation of the logic used in the Profiling process;

       4.      A non-technical, plain language explanation of the role of meaningful human involvement
               in Profiling and the decision-making process;

       5.      How Profiling is used in the decision-making process;

       6.      The benefits and potential consequences of the decision based on the Profiling; and

       7.      An explanation of how Consumers can correct or delete the Personal Data used in the
               Profiling used in the decision-making process.

D.     In order to ensure that Consumers have an opportunity to exercise their right to opt out of
       Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Other Similarly Significant Effects
       Concerning a Consumer, Controllers that Process Personal Data for Profiling covered by C.R.S.
       §§ 6-1-1303(10) and 6-1-1306(1)(a)(I) shall provide a method to exercise the right to opt out of
       Profiling in furtherance of Decision that Produce Legal or Other similarly Significant Effects
       Concerning a Consumer clearly and conspicuously at or before the time such Processing occurs.

E.     Notwithstanding the requirements in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.04(C), nothing in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
       9.04 shall be construed as requiring the Controller to provide information to a Consumer in a
       manner that would disclose the Controller’s trade secrets.

Rule 9.05      CONSENT FOR PROFILING IN FURTHERANCE OF DECISIONS THAT PRODUCE
               LEGAL OR SIMILARLY SIGNIFICANT EFFECTS CONCERNING A CONSUMER

A.     When a Consumer has opted out of Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or
       Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer as defined by C.R.S. § 6-1-1303(10), the
       Controller may request that a Consumer provide Consent after opting out subject to 4 CCR 904-
       3, Rule 7.05.




                                                                                                         41
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


B.     If a Controller decides to begin Processing Personal Data for Profiling in furtherance of Decisions
       that Produce Legal or Similarly Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer and such Processing
       is not reasonably necessary to or compatible with the original specified purposes for which the
       Personal Data was Processed, the Controller shall request the Consumer provide Consent prior
       to such processing, subject to C.R.S. § 6-1-1308(4) and Part 7 of these rules.

C.     Any request for Consent to Profiling in furtherance of Decisions that Produce Legal or Similarly
       Significant Effects Concerning a Consumer must include meaningful information about the
       Profiling that allows a Consumer to make an informed, freely given, and specific choice, including,
       at a minimum:

       1.      The decision subject to the Profiling;

       2.      The categories of Personal Data used in the Profiling;

       3.      A non-technical, plain language explanation of the logic used in the Profiling, or a link to
               such information if it is included in the Controller’s privacy notice;

       4.      How Profiling is used in the decision-making process, including the role of human
               involvement, if any;

       5.      Why the Profiling is relevant to the decision-making process;

       6.      Potential benefits and consequences of the decision based on the Profiling; and

       7.      Any applicable links to where Consumers can find any additional information about the
               Profiling and decision-making process and their associated rights.

D.     Notwithstanding the requirements in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.05(C), nothing in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule
       9.05 shall be constructed as requiring the Controller to provide information to a Consumer in a
       manner that would disclose the Controller’s trade secrets.

Rule 9.06      DATA PROTECTION ASSESSMENTS FOR PROFILING

A.     Controllers must conduct and document a data protection assessment compliant with C.R.S. § 6-
       1-1309 and 4 CCR 904-3, Part 8 before Processing Personal Data for Profiling if the Profiling
       presents a reasonably foreseeable risk of:

       1.      Unfair or deceptive treatment of, or unlawful disparate impact on Consumers;

       2.      Financial or physical injury to Consumers;

       3.      A physical or other intrusion upon the solitude or seclusion, or private affairs or concerns,
               of Consumers if the intrusion would be offensive to a reasonable person; or

       4.      Other substantial injury to Consumers.

B.     Profiling under C.R.S. § 6-1-1309(2)(a) and covered by required data protection assessment
       obligations includes Profiling using Solely Automated Processing, Human Reviewed Automated
       Processing, and Human Involved Automated Processing.

C.     “Unfair or deceptive treatment” as used in C.R.S. § 6-1-1309 and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.06
       includes conduct or activity which violates state or federal laws that prohibit unfair and deceptive
       commercial practices.




                                                                                                          42
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                     4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


D.     “Unlawful disparate impact” as used in C.R.S. § 6-1-1309 and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.06 includes
       conduct or activity which violates state or federal laws that prohibit unlawful discrimination against
       Consumers.

E.     Controllers should consider both the type and degree of potential harm to Consumers when
       determining if Profiling presents a reasonably foreseeable risk of “other substantial injury” to
       Consumers as used in C.R.S. § 6-1-1309 and 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 9.06(A). For example, a small
       harm to a large number of Consumers. may constitute “other substantial injury”.

F.     If a Controller is Processing Personal Data for Profiling under C.R.S. § 6-1-1309(2)(a), a data
       protection assessment of that Processing activity must include the elements listed at 4 CCR 904-
       3, Rule 8.04 as well as each of the following as applicable to the assessed reasonably
       foreseeable risk:

       1.      The specific types of Personal Data that were or will be used in the Profiling or decision-
               making process;

       2.      The decision to be made using Profiling;

       3.      The benefits of automated processing over manual processing for the stated purpose;

       4.      A plain language explanation of why the Profiling directly and reasonably relates to the
               Controller’s goods and services;

       5.      An explanation of the training data and logic used to create the Profiling system, including
               any statistics used in the analysis, either created by the Controller or provided by a Third
               Party which created the applicable Profiling system or software;

       6.      If the Profiling is conducted by Third Party software purchased by the Controller, the
               name of the software and copies of any internal or external evaluations sufficient to show
               of the accuracy and reliability of the software where relevant to the risks described in
               C.R.S. § 6-1-1309(2)(a)(I)-(IV);

       7.      A plain language description of the outputs secured from the Profiling process;

       8.      A plain language description of how the outputs from the Profiling process are or will be
               used, including whether and how they are used to make a decision to provide or deny or
               substantially contribute to the provision or denial of financial or lending services, housing,
               insurance, education, enrollment or opportunity, criminal justice, employment
               opportunities, health-care services, or access to essential goods or services;

       9.      If there is human involvement in the Profiling process, the degree and details of any
               human involvement;

       10.     How the Profiling system is evaluated for fairness and disparate impact, and the results
               of any such evaluation;

       11.     Safeguards used to reduce the risk of harms identified; and

       12.     Safeguards for any data sets produced by or derived from the Profiling.

G.     If a Controller conducts a data protection assessment which includes an assessment of relevant
       Profiling for the purpose of complying with another jurisdiction’s law or regulation, the assessment
       shall satisfy the requirements established in this section if such data protection assessment is
       reasonably similar in scope and effect to the data protection assessment that would otherwise be




                                                                                                          43
CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS                                                                    4 CCR 904-3
Department of Law – Consumer Protection


       conducted pursuant to this section. A Controller may also submit an assessment with a
       supplement that contains any additional information required by this regulation.

PART 10        ENFORCEMENT

Rule 10.01     AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.     The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 10 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-1310 and 6-1-1311. The
       purpose of the rules in this Part 10 is to clarify enforcement considerations related to the
       Colorado Privacy Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1303, et seq., and these Colorado Privacy Act Rules, 4 CCR
       904-3.

Rule 10.02     ENFORCEMENT CONSIDERATIONS

A.     Nothing in the Colorado Privacy Act, C.R.S. § 6-1-1303, et seq., or these Colorado Privacy Act
       Rules, 4 CCR 904-3, provides the Colorado Attorney General or District Attorney, as applicable,
       with enforcement powers that would infringe upon rights protected by the United States
       Constitution or Colorado Constitution, including the right to freedom of speech or freedom of the
       press.

PART 11        MATERIALS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Rule 11.01     AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE

A.     The statutory authority for the rules in this Part 10 is C.R.S. §§ 6-1-108(1) and 6-1-1313. The
       purpose of the rules in this Part 11 is to incorporate by reference the guidelines that are referred
       to in 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02(A)(2).

Rule 11.02     WEB CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES

A.     The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, version 2.1 of June 5, 2018, from the World Wide Web
       Consortium, are hereby incorporated into 4 CCR 904-3, Rule 3.02(A)(2) by reference pursuant to
       C.R.S. § 24-4-103(12.5), and do not include any later amendments.

B.     Copies of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines that are incorporated by reference into these
       rules may be obtained by sending a written request to the following address by U.S. mail:

       Colorado Department of Law
       Ralph L. Carr Judicial Center
       1300 Broadway, 9th Floor
       Denver, CO 80203

C.     The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines published by the World Wide Web Consortium
       incorporated by reference into these rules are available at no cost in an electronic form online at
       https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/.

D.     The Colorado Department of Law also maintains a copy of the Web Content Accessibility
       Guidelines that are incorporated by reference into these rules that is available for public
       inspection at the Colorado Department of Law’s office during regular business hours.




                                                                                                          44
