NY State Senate Bill 2025-S8391 Sorry, you need to enable JavaScript to visit this website. Skip to main content The New York State Senate get involved login Search Search icon Search Advanced Legislation Search Advanced Legislation Search News & Issues Senators & Committees Bills & Laws Events About The Senate open and focus search login Search Search icon Search Advanced Legislation Search Find your Senator and share your views on important issues. find your senator Do you support this bill? Aye Nay Get Status Alerts for 2025-S8391 Email Address subscribe Senate Bill S8391 Signed By Governor 2025-2026 Legislative Session Relates to the right of publicity download bill text pdf Share this bill ." class="c-detail--social-item bill"> Sponsored By Michael Gianaris (D, WF) 12th Senate District Current Bill Status - Signed by Governor Introduced In Committee Assembly In Committee Senate On Floor Calendar Assembly On Floor Calendar Senate Passed Assembly Passed Senate Delivered to Governor Signed By Governor Please enter your contact information First Name Last Name Email Address A valid email address is required. Home address is used to determine the senate district in which you reside. Your support or opposition to this bill is then shared immediately with the senator who represents you. Optional services from the NY State Senate: Send me alerts for this bill. I can unsubscribe at any time. Learn more . Create an account . An account allows you to officially support or oppose key legislation, sign petitions with a single click, and follow issues, committees, and bills that matter to you. When you create an account, you agree to this platform's terms of participation . Include a custom message for your Senator? (Optional) Enter a message to your senator. Many New Yorkers use this to share the reasoning behind their support or opposition to the bill. Others might share a personal anecdote about how the bill would affect them or people they care about. Actions View Actions Date of Action Assembly Actions - Lowercase Senate Actions - UPPERCASE Dec 11, 2025 signed chap.616 Dec 01, 2025 delivered to governor Jun 17, 2025 returned to senate passed assembly ordered to third reading rules cal.883 substituted for a8882 Jun 13, 2025 referred to judiciary delivered to assembly passed senate Jun 12, 2025 ordered to third reading cal.2025 Jun 06, 2025 referred to rules Votes View Votes Jun 13, 2025 - Floor Vote S8391 Aye 59 Nay 0 Absent 0 Excused 4 Abstained 0 View Floor vote details Floor Vote: Jun 13, 2025 aye (59) Addabbo Jr. Ashby Bailey Baskin Borrello Brisport Brouk Bynoe Canzoneri-Fitzpatrick Chan Cleare Comrie Cooney Fahy Fernandez Gallivan Gianaris Gonzalez Gounardes Griffo Harckham Helming Hinchey Hoylman-Sigal Jackson Kavanagh Krueger Lanza Liu Martinez Martins Mattera May Mayer O'Mara Oberacker Ortt Palumbo Parker Persaud Rhoads Rivera Rolison Ryan Ryan Salazar Sanders Jr. Scarcella-Spanton Sepúlveda Serrano Skoufis Stavisky Stec Stewart-Cousins Tedisco Walczyk Webb Weber Weik excused (4) Murray Myrie Ramos Sutton The following Member(s) participated via videoconferencing: Brouk Ryan Jun 12, 2025 - Rules Committee Vote S8391 Aye 15 Nay 0 Aye with Reservations 5 Absent 0 Excused 1 Abstained 0 View Rules Committee vote details Rules Committee Vote: Jun 12, 2025 aye (15) Addabbo Jr. Bailey Comrie Fernandez Gianaris Harckham Hoylman-Sigal Krueger Liu Mayer Ortt Parker Sepúlveda Stec Stewart-Cousins aye wr (5) Gallivan Griffo Helming Lanza O'Mara excused (1) Myrie 2025-S8391 (ACTIVE) - Details See Assembly Version of this Bill: A8882 Law Section: Civil Rights Law Laws Affected: Amd §50-f, Civ Rts L 2025-S8391 (ACTIVE) - Summary Relates to the right of publicity; amends the definitions of "deceased performer", "deceased personality" and "digital replica" in relation to the right of publicity; relates to the use of a deceased performer's digital replica without authorization by the applicable right holder. 2025-S8391 (ACTIVE) - Sponsor Memo BILL NUMBER: S8391 SPONSOR: GIANARIS TITLE OF BILL: An act to amend the civil rights law, in relation to the right of publicity PURPOSE: To generally prohibit the use of a digital replica of a deceased person- ality's voice or likeness in an expressive audiovisual work without prior consent. SUMMARY OF PROVISIONS: Section one of the bill amends § 50-f of the civil rights law as follows: Subdivision 1 is amended to revise the definition of "digital replica" as a computer-generated, highly realistic, electronic performance that that is readily identifiable as the voice or visual likeness of an indi- vidual, but either the actual individual did not actually perform or the actual individual did perform, but the fundamental character of the performance or appearance has been materially altered. Subdivision 2 is amended by removing language requiring a disclaimer for digital replicas in certain expressive works and replacing it with a stricter standard that holds persons liable for using a deceased performer's digital replica in audiovisual works, sound recordings, or live performances without prior consent. Subdivisions 3 and 6 make technical changes by replacing gender specific language with gender neutral language. Subdivision 9 is amended to include streaming services. Subdivision 10 is amended to clarify that persons offering services that display audiovisual or visual works to users are not liable under this section unless they receive a good-faith notice from a successor in interest about unauthorized use of a deceased performer's digital repli- ca and fail to remove the work as soon as is technically and practically feasible. Section two of the bill sets the effective date. JUSTIFICATION: In 2020, New York established a right of publicity into state law, requiring consent if a person wishes to use the name, image or likeness of a deceased person for commercial purposes. The law also created some narrower protections against the unauthorized use of a deceased perform- er's digital replica in expressive audiovisual works: rather than requiring consent before using in such expressive works, a person currently only needs to offer a disclaimer, so long as the depiction is not likely to deceive the public into thinking that use was authorized. This compromise language was enacted at a time when digital replication was only just beginning. Creating digital replicas was neither easy nor affordable to do back in 2020. Now, only 5 years later, anyone with a smartphone can produce and disseminate digital replicas. Given the unparalleled dangers presented by ubiquitous digital cloning, New York must strengthen its right of publicity laws to protect deceased person- alities from being exploited. To address this growing problem, the bill would require persons wishing to use the voice or likeness of a deceased person in expressive audi- ovisual works like movies and video games to obtain the prior consent of the deceased person's heirs. A similar framework was first enacted in California in 2024, and it reflects the consensus reached among unions, performers, studios, labels, broadcasters, platforms and generative artificial intelligence systems. It is imperative that New York update its law to keep up with emerging technologies and ensure that people's voice and likeness are not being exploited for personal gain. LEGISLATIVE HISTORY: New Bill FISCAL IMPLICATIONS: TBD EFFECTIVE DATE: This act would take effect immediately. View More (68 Lines) 2025-S8391 (ACTIVE) - Bill Text download pdf S T A T E O F N E W Y O R K ________________________________________________________________________ 8391 2025-2026 Regular Sessions I N S E N A T E June 6, 2025 ___________ Introduced by Sen. GIANARIS -- read twice and ordered printed, and when printed to be committed to the Committee on Rules AN ACT to amend the civil rights law, in relation to the right of publicity THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, REPRESENTED IN SENATE AND ASSEM- BLY, DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS: Section 1. Subdivisions 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 and 10 of section 50-f of the civil rights law, subdivisions 1, 2, 3, 6 and 9 as added by chapter 304 of the laws of 2020 and subparagraph (v) of paragraph d of subdivision 2 and subdivision 10 as added by chapter 709 of the laws of 2022, are amended to read as follows: 1. For purposes of this section: a. "deceased performer" means a deceased [natural person] PERSONALITY domiciled in this state at the time of death who, for gain or liveli- hood, was regularly engaged in acting, singing, dancing, or playing a musical instrument. b. "deceased personality" means any deceased natural person domiciled in this state at the time of death whose name, voice, signature, photo- graph, or likeness has commercial value at the time of [his or her] SUCH NATURAL PERSON'S death, or because of [his or her] SUCH NATURAL PERSON'S death, whether or not during the lifetime of that natural person the person used [his or her] SUCH NATURAL PERSON'S name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness on or in products, merchandise, or goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or solicitation of purchase of, products, merchandise, goods, or services. c. "digital replica" means a newly created, [original,] computer-gen- erated, HIGHLY REALISTIC electronic [performance by an individual in a separate and newly created, original expressive sound recording or audi- ovisual work in which the individual did not actually perform, that is so realistic that a reasonable observer would believe it is a perform- ance by the individual being portrayed and no other individual] REPRE- EXPLANATION--Matter in ITALICS (underscored) is new; matter in brackets [ ] is old law to be omitted. LBD13320-02-5 S. 8391 2 SENTATION THAT IS READILY IDENTIFIABLE AS THE VOICE OR VISUAL LIKENESS OF AN INDIVIDUAL THAT IS EMBODIED IN A SOUND RECORDING, IMAGE, AUDIOVIS- UAL WORK, INCLUDING AN AUDIOVISUAL WORK THAT DOES NOT HAVE ANY ACCOMPA- NYING SOUNDS, OR TRANSMISSION IN WHICH: (I) THE ACTUAL INDIVIDUAL DID NOT ACTUALLY PERFORM OR APPEAR; OR (II) THE ACTUAL INDIVIDUAL DID PERFORM OR APPEAR, BUT THE FUNDAMENTAL CHARACTER OF THE PERFORMANCE OR APPEARANCE HAS BEEN MATERIALLY ALTERED. A digital replica does not include the electronic reproduction, [computer generated or other digital remastering of an expressive sound recording or audiovisual work consisting of an individual's original or recorded performance, nor the making or duplication of another recording that consists entirely of the independent fixation of other sounds, even if such sounds imitate or simulate the voice of the individual] USE OF A SAMPLE OF ONE SOUND RECORDING OR AUDIOVISUAL WORK INTO ANOTHER, REMIXING, MASTERING, OR DIGITAL REMASTERING OF A SOUND RECORDING OR AUDIOVISUAL WORK AUTHORIZED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER. d. "sound recordings" are works that result from the fixation of a series of musical, spoken, or other sounds, but not including the sounds accompanying a motion picture or other audiovisual work, regardless of the nature of the material objects, such as disks, tapes, or other phonorecords, in which they are embodied. 2. a. Any person who uses a deceased personality's name, voice, signa- ture, photograph, or likeness, in any manner, on or in products, merchandise, or goods, or for purposes of advertising or selling, or soliciting purchases of, products, merchandise, goods, or services, without prior consent from the person or persons specified in subdivi- sion four of this section, shall be liable for any damages sustained by the person or persons injured as a result thereof. b. Any person who uses a deceased performer's digital replica in [a scripted audiovisual work as a fictional character or for the live performance of a musical work] AN AUDIOVISUAL WORK, SOUND RECORDING, OR FOR THE LIVE PERFORMANCE OF A MUSICAL WORK, WITH KNOWLEDGE THAT THE USE WAS OF A DIGITAL REPLICA AND WAS NOT AUTHORIZED BY THE APPLICABLE RIGHT HOLDER, shall be liable for any damages sustained by the person or persons injured as a result thereof if the use occurs without prior consent from the person or persons in subdivision four of this section[, if the use is likely to deceive the public into thinking it was author- ized by the person or persons specified in subdivision four of this section. A use shall not be considered likely to deceive the public into thinking it was authorized by the person or persons specified in subdi- vision four of this section if the person making such use provides a conspicuous disclaimer in the credits of the scripted audiovisual work, and in any related advertisement in which the digital replica appears, stating that the use of the digital replica has not been authorized by the person or persons specified in subdivision four of this section]. c. In any action brought under this section: i. the person who violated the section shall be liable to the injured party or parties in an amount equal to the greater of two thousand dollars or the compensatory damages suffered by the injured party or parties, as a result of the unauthorized use, and any profits from the unauthorized use that are attributable to such use and are not taken into account in computing the compensatory damages. ii. in establishing profits under this subdivision, the injured party or parties shall be required to present proof only of the gross revenue attributable to the unauthorized use, and the person who violated this S. 8391 3 section is required to prove [his or her] SUCH PERSON'S deductible expenses. iii. punitive damages may also be awarded to the injured party or parties. d. For purposes of this subdivision: i. it shall not be a violation of paragraph a of this subdivision if the work is a play, book, magazine, newspaper, or other literary work; musical work or composition; work of art or other visual work; work of political, public interest, educational or newsworthy value, including comment, criticism, parody or satire; audio or audiovisual work, radio or television program, if it is fictional or nonfictional entertainment; or an advertisement or commercial announcement for any of the foregoing works. ii. it shall not be a violation of paragraph b of this subdivision if the work is of parody, satire, commentary, or criticism; works of poli- tical or newsworthy value, or similar works, such as documentaries, docudramas, or historical or biographical works, [regardless of the] INCLUDING SOME degree of fictionalization; a representation of a deceased performer as [himself or herself] THEMSELF, [regardless of the] INCLUDING SOME degree of fictionalization, except in a live performance of a musical work; de minimis or incidental; or an advertisement or commercial announcement for any of the foregoing works. iii. it shall not be a violation of this section if the use of a name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness occurs in connection with any news, public affairs, or sports program or account, regardless of format, medium or means of transmission, or any political campaign. iv. it shall not be a violation of this section if the use is of a name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness in a commercial medium solely because the material containing the use is commercially sponsored or contains paid advertising or product placement, or includes within it a use in connection with a product, article of merchandise, good, or service. Rather, it shall be a question of fact whether or not the use of the deceased personality's name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness was so directly connected with the commercial sponsorship or with the paid advertising or product placement as to constitute a use for which consent is required under this subdivision. v. works identified pursuant to this paragraph shall not violate this section, regardless of the medium or means of transmission. e. In relation to a violation of paragraph a of this subdivision, if a work that is protected under paragraph d of this subdivision includes within it a use in connection with a product, article of merchandise, good, or service, this use shall not be exempt under paragraph d of this subdivision, notwithstanding the unprotected use's inclusion in a work otherwise exempt under paragraph d of this subdivision, if the claimant proves that this use is so directly connected with a product, article of merchandise, good, or service as to constitute an act of advertising, selling, or soliciting purchases of that product, article of merchan- dise, good, or service by the deceased personality without prior consent for the use under paragraph a of this subdivision from the person or persons specified in subdivision four of this section. 3. The rights recognized under this section are property rights, free- ly transferable or descendible, in whole or in part, by contract, license, gift, or by means of any trust or any other testamentary instrument. In the absence of an express transfer in a testamentary instrument of the deceased personality's rights in [his or her] SUCH DECEASED PERSONALITY'S name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness, S. 8391 4 a provision in the testamentary instrument that provides for the dispo- sition of the residue of the deceased personality's assets shall be effective to transfer the rights recognized under this section in accordance with the terms of that provision. The rights established by this section shall also be freely transferable or descendible by contract, license, gift, trust, or any other testamentary instrument by any subsequent owner of the deceased personality's rights as recognized by this section. Nothing in this section shall be construed to render invalid or unenforceable any contract entered into by a deceased person- ality during [his or her] SUCH DECEASED PERSONALITY'S lifetime by which the deceased personality assigned the rights, in whole or in part, to use [his or her] SUCH DECEASED PERSONALITY'S name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness. 6. If any deceased personality does not transfer [his or her] SUCH DECEASED PERSONALITY'S rights under this section by contract, or by means of a trust or testamentary instrument, and there are no surviving persons as described in subdivision five of this section, then the rights set forth in subdivision two of this section shall terminate. 9. Nothing in this section shall apply to the owners or employees of any medium used for advertising, including, but not limited to, newspa- pers, magazines, radio and television networks and stations, STREAMING SERVICES, cable television systems, billboards, and transit advertise- ments, by whom any advertisement or solicitation in violation of this section is published or disseminated, unless it is established that the owners or employees had actual knowledge by prior notification of the unauthorized use of the deceased performer's digital replica or deceased personality's name, voice, signature, photograph, or likeness as prohib- ited by this section. 10. Nothing in this section shall apply to a person that offers a service that displays, offers for sale or license, sells or licenses a work of art or other visual work, or audiovisual work, to a user, provided the terms of such sale or license do not authorize such user to engage in acts that constitute a violation of this section, UNLESS IT IS ESTABLISHED THAT THE PERSON RECEIVED A NOTICE FROM THE SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST OF THE DECEASED PERFORMER'S DIGITAL REPLICA RIGHTS BASED ON A GOOD FAITH BELIEF THAT THE DISPLAY, OFFER FOR SALE OR LICENSE OF THE DIGITAL REPLICA ON THE SERVICE IS NOT AUTHORIZED BY THE APPLICABLE RIGHT HOLDER OR THE LAW, AND THE PERSON HAS NOT REMOVED THE WORK CONTAINING THE DIGITAL REPLICA AS SOON AS IS TECHNICALLY AND PRACTICALLY FEASIBLE. § 2. This act shall take effect immediately. View More (160 Lines) Comments Open Legislation is a forum for New York State legislation. All comments are subject to review and community moderation is encouraged. Comments deemed off-topic, commercial, campaign-related, self-promotional; or that contain profanity, hate or toxic speech; or that link to sites outside of the nysenate.gov domain are not permitted, and will not be published. Attempts to intimidate and silence contributors or deliberately deceive the public, including excessive or extraneous posting/posts, or coordinated activity, are prohibited and may result in the temporary or permanent banning of the user. Comment moderation is generally performed Monday through Friday. By contributing or voting you agree to the Terms of Participation and verify you are over 13. Create an account . An account allows you to sign petitions with a single click, officially support or oppose key legislation, and follow issues, committees, and bills that matter to you. When you create an account, you agree to this platform's terms of participation . NYSenate.gov Socials Follow the New York State Senate Footer News & Issues Senators & Committees Bills & Laws Budget Events About the Senate Footer Right Contact the Senate Report a Website Issue Home Rule Form Site Policies About this Website GET INVOLVED