                VIRGINIA ACTS OF ASSEMBLY -- 2019 SESSION

                                             CHAPTER 490

An Act to amend and reenact § 18.2-386.2 of the Code of Virginia, relating to unlawful dissemination or
   sale of images of another person; penalty.


                                                                                                [H 2678]
                                        Approved March 18, 2019

    Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Virginia:
1. That § 18.2-386.2 of the Code of Virginia is amended and reenacted as follows:
    § 18.2-386.2. Unlawful dissemination or sale of images of another; penalty.
    A. Any person who, with the intent to coerce, harass, or intimidate, maliciously disseminates or sells
any videographic or still image created by any means whatsoever that depicts another person who is
totally nude, or in a state of undress so as to expose the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or female breast,
where such person knows or has reason to know that he is not licensed or authorized to disseminate or
sell such videographic or still image is guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. However, if For purposes of
this subsection, "another person" includes a person whose image was used in creating, adapting, or
modifying a videographic or still image with the intent to depict an actual person and who is
recognizable as an actual person by the person's face, likeness, or other distinguishing characteristic.
    B. If a person uses services of an Internet service provider, an electronic mail service provider, or
any other information service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server in committing acts prohibited under this section, such
provider shall not be held responsible for violating this section for content provided by another person.
    B. C. Venue for a prosecution under this section may lie in the jurisdiction where the unlawful act
occurs or where any videographic or still image created by any means whatsoever is produced,
reproduced, found, stored, received, or possessed in violation of this section.
    C. D. The provisions of this section shall not preclude prosecution under any other statute.
