Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                       LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


    AN ACT concerning regulation.


    Be it enacted by the People of the State of Illinois,

represented in the General Assembly:


    Section 1. Short title. This Act may be cited as the
Wellness and Oversight for Psychological Resources Act.


    Section       5.   Purpose.    The     purpose        of    this    Act   is   to
safeguard     individuals         seeking        therapy        or    psychotherapy
services     by    ensuring       these        services        are    delivered    by
qualified, licensed, or certified professionals. This Act is
intended to protect consumers from unlicensed or unqualified
providers,    including       unregulated             artificial       intelligence
systems, while respecting individual choice and access to
community-based and faith-based mental health support.


    Section 10. Definitions. In this Act:
    "Administrative support" means tasks performed to assist a
licensed     professional         in   the       delivery        of    therapy     or
psychotherapy      services   that        do    not    involve       communication.
"Administrative support" includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
        (1) managing appointment scheduling and reminders;
        (2) processing billing and insurance claims; and
        (3) drafting general communications related to therapy
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                 LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


    logistics that do not include therapeutic advice.
    "Artificial intelligence" has the meaning given to that
term in Section 2-101 of the Illinois Human Rights Act.
    "Consent" means a clear, explicit affirmative act by an
individual     that:      (i)     unambiguously      communicates        the
individual's       express,    freely    given,   informed,       voluntary,
specific,    and    unambiguous       written   agreement,    including    a
written agreement provided by electronic means, and (ii) is
revocable by the individual. "Consent" does not include an
agreement that is obtained by the following:
         (1) the acceptance of a general or broad terms of use
    agreement or a similar document that contains descriptions
    of   artificial     intelligence      along   with    other    unrelated
    information;
         (2) an individual hovering over, muting, pausing, or
    closing a given piece of digital content; or
         (3) an agreement obtained through the use of deceptive
    actions.
    "Department"       means    the     Department   of    Financial     and
Professional Regulation.
    "Licensed professional" means an individual who holds a
valid license issued by this State to provide therapy or
psychotherapy services, including:
         (1) a licensed clinical psychologist;
         (2) a licensed clinical social worker;
         (3) a licensed social worker;
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                     LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


        (4) a licensed professional counselor;
        (5) a licensed clinical professional counselor;
        (6) a licensed marriage and family therapist;
        (7)   a    certified      alcohol        and   other    drug   counselor
    authorized to provide therapy or psychotherapy services;
        (8) a licensed professional music therapist;
        (9) a licensed advanced practice psychiatric nurse as
    defined   in    Section      1-101.3     of     the    Mental   Health    and
    Developmental Disabilities Code; and
        (10) any other professional authorized by this State
    to provide therapy or psychotherapy services, except for a
    physician.
    "Peer support" means services provided by individuals with
lived experience of mental health conditions or recovery from
substance    use   that    are    intended        to   offer    encouragement,
understanding, and guidance without clinical intervention.
    "Religious counseling" means counseling provided by clergy
members,    pastoral     counselors,        or    other     religious    leaders
acting within the scope of their religious duties if the
services are explicitly faith-based and are not represented as
clinical mental health services or therapy or psychotherapy
services.
    "Supplementary support" means tasks performed to assist a
licensed    professional         in   the        delivery      of   therapy    or
psychotherapy      services      that   do       not      involve   therapeutic
communication      and    that    are   not        administrative       support.
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


"Supplementary support" includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (1)    preparing      and    maintaining    client        records,
    including therapy notes;
         (2) analyzing anonymized data to track client progress
    or   identify    trends,    subject   to   review    by    a    licensed
    professional; and
         (3) identifying and organizing external resources or
    referrals for client use.
    "Therapeutic communication" means any verbal, non-verbal,
or written interaction conducted in a clinical or professional
setting that is intended to diagnose, treat, or address an
individual's mental, emotional, or behavioral health concerns.
"Therapeutic communication" includes, but is not limited to:
         (1) direct interactions with clients for the purpose
    of understanding or reflecting their thoughts, emotions,
    or experiences;
         (2) providing      guidance, therapeutic        strategies,      or
    interventions designed to achieve mental health outcomes;
         (3)    offering    emotional     support,      reassurance,      or
    empathy     in   response    to     psychological     or       emotional
    distress;
         (4) collaborating with clients to develop or modify
    therapeutic goals or treatment plans; and
         (5) offering behavioral feedback intended to promote
    psychological growth or address mental health conditions.
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                    LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


    "Therapy       or     psychotherapy       services"      means      services
provided to diagnose, treat, or improve an individual's mental
health     or    behavioral        health.    "Therapy      or   psychotherapy
services"       does    not   include    religious     counseling        or   peer
support.


    Section 15. Permitted use of artificial intelligence.
    (a) As used in this Section, "permitted use of artificial
intelligence" means the use of artificial intelligence tools
or systems by a licensed professional to assist in providing
administrative support or supplementary support in therapy or
psychotherapy          services     where    the   licensed        professional
maintains full responsibility for all interactions, outputs,
and data use associated with the system and satisfies the
requirements of subsection (b).
    (b) No licensed professional shall be permitted to use
artificial intelligence to assist in providing supplementary
support     in    therapy     or    psychotherapy      where     the     client's
therapeutic session is recorded or transcribed unless:
          (1) the patient or the patient's legally authorized
    representative is informed in writing of the following:
                 (A) that artificial intelligence will be used; and
                 (B)    the   specific       purpose   of    the       artificial
          intelligence tool or system that will be used; and
          (2) the patient or the patient's legally authorized
    representative provides consent to the use of artificial
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                     LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


     intelligence.


     Section 20. Prohibition on unauthorized therapy services.
     (a) An individual, corporation, or entity may not provide,
advertise,        or     otherwise      offer    therapy     or     psychotherapy
services,         including      through      the   use    of      Internet-based
artificial intelligence, to the public in this State unless
the therapy or psychotherapy services are conducted by an
individual who is a licensed professional.
     (b)     A      licensed       professional      may        use       artificial
intelligence only to the extent the use meets the requirements
of   Section       15.     A    licensed      professional        may     not   allow
artificial intelligence to do any of the following:
           (1) make independent therapeutic decisions;
           (2) directly interact with clients in any form of
     therapeutic communication;
           (3) generate therapeutic recommendations or treatment
     plans       without       review   and     approval     by     the     licensed
     professional; or
           (4) detect emotions or mental states.


     Section 25. Disclosure of records and communications. All
records kept by a licensed professional and all communications
between      an     individual       seeking     therapy     or     psychotherapy
services and a licensed professional shall be confidential and
shall not be disclosed except as required under the Mental
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                                      LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


Health and Developmental Disabilities Confidentiality Act.


    Section 30. Enforcement and penalties.
    (a)   Any     individual,      corporation,        or     entity    found      in
violation    of      this   Act   shall    pay   a    civil    penalty       to   the
Department in an amount not to exceed $10,000 per violation,
as determined by the Department, with penalties assessed based
on the degree of harm and the circumstances of the violation.
The civil penalty shall be assessed by the Department after a
hearing is held in accordance with Section 2105-100 of the
Department      of    Professional        Regulation     Law    of     the    Civil
Administrative Code of Illinois. An individual, corporation,
or entity found in violation of this Act shall pay the civil
penalty within 60 days after the date of an order by the
Department      imposing     the    civil     penalty.        The    order    shall
constitute a judgment and may be filed and executed in the same
manner as any judgment from a court of record.
    (b) The Department shall have authority to investigate any
actual, alleged, or suspected violation of this Act.


    Section 35. Exceptions. This Act does not apply to the
following:
          (1) religious counseling;
          (2) peer support; and
          (3) self-help materials and educational resources that
    are available to the public and do not purport to offer
Public Act 104-0054

HB1806 Enrolled                          LRB104 07364 AAS 17404 b


    therapy or psychotherapy services.


    Section 99. Effective date. This Act takes effect upon
becoming law.
