SB1571 2024 Regular Session - Oregon Legislative Information System Oregon State Legislature Oregon Legislative Information Help | Staff Login Oregon Legislative Information Toggle navigation Session Bills Committees Exec. Appts. More Help | Staff Login Oregon Legislative Information System Toggle navigation Session Bill Committees ExecutiveAppointments Reports 2024 Regular Session SB 1571 Enrolled Lock Sponsors Navigation Toggle navigation Overview Text Introduced Senate Amendments to Introduced A-Engrossed House Amendments to A-Engrossed B-Engrossed Enrolled Analysis Amendments Testimony Register to Testify Submit Testimony Overview At the request of: Chief Sponsors: Add Remove Regular Sponsors: Add Remove Bill Title: Relating to the use of artificial intelligence in campaign communications; declaring an emergency. Catchline/Summary: Requires a disclosure of the use of synthetic media in campaign communications. Digest: The Act would require a disclosure of the use of AI or other similar technology in campaign ads. The Act would create a way to enforce the requirement and to impose a fine for violations. (Flesch Readability Score: 60.7). Requires a disclosure of the use of synthetic media in campaign communications. Provides for the enforcement of the requirement. Subjects a violation of the requirement to a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000. Exempts certain entities and content from the requirement. Declares an emergency, effective on passage. Chapter Number: Chapter 62 Fiscal Impact: Fiscal Impact Issued Revenue Impact: No Revenue Impact Measure Analysis: Staff Measure Summary / Impact Statements Current Location: Chapter Number Assigned Current Committee: Current Subcommittee: Subsequent Referral(s): Potential Conflicts of Interest/Vote Explanations: Potential Conflicts of Interest/Vote Explanation Documents × Sponsor Change Confirmation Yes No Measure History Scheduled Events × Oregon Legislative Assembly - Public Testimony Registration Form You are registering to speak about: SB 1571 Registration Instructions / Language Access Services Information Submit the form below to testify or comment either in person or remotely by video or phone. After completing the required fields ( * ), click the “Submit Registration to Testify” button. Email address and phone number are required for administrative purposes and will not be posted to OLIS. Your phone number will be displayed on the livestream of the committee meeting if you testify by phone. Registration ends 30 minutes prior to the start of the meeting. After that time, the registration system will close. After registering and seeing a confirmation screen, you will receive an email with meeting details. If you do not receive a confirmation email, check your email spam folder. Registration does not guarantee that you will have an opportunity to speak; the chair may determine that time for public testimony will be limited. Committee meetings are sometimes cancelled or rescheduled. You can receive email updates on selected bills or committee agendas by signing up for Capitol e-Subscribe. If you would like to provide written testimony to the committee, see instructions to submit written testimony here. To request spoken language interpretation, American Sign Language (ASL) interpretation, or Communication Access Realtime Translation (CART) services, please email languageaccess@oregonlegislature.gov or call 503-986-1538 at least 3 days in advance. Para solicitar servicios de interpretación de lenguaje hablado, interpretación de lenguaje de señas americano (ASL) o traducción en tiempo real de acceso a la comunicación (CART), envíe un correo electrónico a languageaccess@oregonlegislature.gov o llame al 503-986-1538 con 3 dias de anticipación. Select the Meeting Date: Select... First Name: * Last Name: * City of Residence: * Phone Number: * Location When You Testify: * Email Address: * Confidential - Administrative Use Only Select... In Person Remotely Will you travel more than 100 miles to this meeting to testify? Yes No How do you wish to be addressed? Organization: Organizational Title: Other: * Select... Neutral Oppose Support Cancel × You Have Successfully Registered to Testify Testimony Details: You will receive an email soon with meeting details. If you registered to testify remotely, the email will include a link or phone number to join the committee meeting. If you do not receive a confirmation within 24 hours, have any questions, or need to cancel your registration, please call 1-833-588-4500 or email the committee assistant listed on the committee page on OLIS. Committee meetings are sometimes canceled or rescheduled. If you register to testify and the meeting is rescheduled, you will need to register for the new meeting date. To receive email updates on selected bills or committee agendas, sign up for Capitol E-Subscribe. Close this Window × SB 1571 Not Scheduled for Public Testimony Thank you for your interest in providing public testimony on . Either this item is not currently scheduled for a public hearing, or the deadline to register to testify or to submit written testimony has passed. For questions about the legislature, legislative process, or other government agencies, please email help.leg@oregonlegislature.gov or call 1-800-332-2313. Close this Window × SB 1571 Not Scheduled for Public Testimony Thank you for your interest in providing written testimony on . Either this item is not currently scheduled for a public hearing, or the deadline to register to testify or to submit written testimony has passed. For questions about the legislature, legislative process, or other government agencies, please email help.leg@oregonlegislature.gov or call 1-800-332-2313. Close this Window × Close Oregon State Legislature Building Hours: Monday - Friday, 7:00 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 1-800-332-2313 | 900 Court St. NE, Salem Oregon 97301 Disclaimer | Universal Access | Employment | Oregon.Gov Sign in -->