Bill Text - AB-489 Health care professions: deceptive terms or letters: artificial intelligence. skip to content home accessibility FAQ feedback sitemap login x Quick Search: Bill Number Bill Keyword Home Bill Information California Law Publications Other Resources My Subscriptions My Favorites Bill Information >> Bill Search >> Text Bill Text PDF2 Bill PDF | Add To My Favorites | Track Bill | Version: 10/11/25 - Chaptered 09/10/25 - Enrolled 07/08/25 - Amended Senate 06/16/25 - Amended Senate 04/10/25 - Amended Assembly 02/10/25 - Introduced AB-489 Health care professions: deceptive terms or letters: artificial intelligence. (2025-2026) Text >> Votes >> History >> Bill Analysis >> Today's Law As Amended >> Compare Versions >> Status >> Comments To Author >> Track Bill >> Add To My Favorites >> SHARE THIS: Date Published: 10/13/2025 09:00 PM AB489:v94#DOCUMENT Bill Start Assembly Bill No. 489 CHAPTER 615 An act to add Chapter 15.5 (commencing with Section 4999.8) to Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to healing arts. [ Approved by Governor October 11, 2025. Filed with Secretary of State October 11, 2025. ] LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGEST AB 489, Bonta. Health care professions: deceptive terms or letters: artificial intelligence. Existing law establishes various healing arts boards within the Department of Consumer Affairs that license and regulate various healing arts licensees. Existing laws, including, among others, the Medical Practice Act and the Dental Practice Act, make it a crime for a person who is not licensed as a specified health care professional to use certain words, letters, and phrases or any other terms that imply that they are authorized to practice that profession. Existing law requires, with certain exemptions, a health facility, clinic, physician’s office, or office of a group practice that uses generative artificial intelligence, as defined, to generate written or verbal patient communications pertaining to patient clinical information, as defined, to ensure that those communications include both (1) a disclaimer that indicates to the patient that a communication was generated by generative artificial intelligence, as specified, and (2) clear instructions describing how a patient may contact a human health care provider, employee, or other appropriate person. Existing law provides that a violation of these provisions by a physician shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Medical Board of California or the Osteopathic Medical Board of California, as appropriate. This bill would make provisions of law that prohibit the use of specified terms, letters, or phrases to falsely indicate or imply possession of a license or certificate to practice a health care profession, as defined, enforceable against an entity who develops or deploys artificial intelligence (AI) or generative artificial intelligence (GenAI) technology that uses one or more of those terms, letters, or phrases in its advertising or functionality. The bill would prohibit the use by AI or GenAI technology of certain terms, letters, or phrases that indicate or imply that the advice, care, reports, or assessments being provided through AI or GenAI is being provided by a natural person with the appropriated health care license or certificate. This bill would make a violation of these provisions subject to the jurisdiction of the appropriate health care profession board, and would make each use of a prohibited term, letter, or phrase punishable as a separate violation. By expanding the scope of existing crimes, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program. The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement. This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason. Digest Key Vote: MAJORITY Appropriation: NO Fiscal Committee: YES Local Program: YES Bill Text The people of the State of California do enact as follows: SECTION 1. Chapter 15.5 (commencing with Section 4999.8) is added to Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code, to read: CHAPTER 15.5. Health Advice From Artificial Intelligence 4999.8. For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply: (a) “Artificial intelligence” or “AI” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 11546.45.5 of the Government Code. (b) “Generative artificial intelligence” or “GenAI” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 11549.64 of the Government Code. (c) “Health care profession” means any profession that is the subject of licensure or regulation under this division or under any initiative act referred to in this division. 4999.9. (a) (1) A violation of this chapter is subject to the jurisdiction of the appropriate health care professional licensing board or enforcement agency. (2) The appropriate health care professional licensing board may pursue an injunction or restraining order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, as authorized by Section 125.5. (3) Nothing in this section limits the authority for a health care professional licensing board or enforcement agency to pursue any remedy otherwise authorized under the law. (b) Any provision of this division that prohibits the use of specified terms, letters, or phrases to indicate or imply possession of a license or certificate to practice a health care profession, without at that time having the appropriate license or certificate required for that practice or profession, shall be enforceable against a person or entity who develops or deploys a system or device that uses one or more of those terms, letters, or phrases in the advertising or functionality of an artificial intelligence or generative artificial intelligence system, program, device, or similar technology. (c) The use of a term, letter, or phrase in the advertising or functionality of an AI or GenAI system, program, device, or similar technology that indicates or implies that the care, advice, reports, or assessments being offered through the AI or GenAI technology is being provided by a natural person in possession of the appropriate license or certificate to practice as a health care professional, is prohibited. (d) Each use of a prohibited term, letter, or phrase shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter. SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.